Conceptual Framework and Theory of M&A*

                                  Alexander S. Gorbenko
     University College London, Economics and School of Management

                                          June 2025




Contents
1 Introduction                                                                               3

2 Tender offers                                                                              4
  2.1   The free-riding problem . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     6
  2.2   Solutions to the problem . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
  2.3   Private information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
  2.4   Large shareholders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
  2.5   Endogenous value creation and deal terms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
  2.6   Activist investors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17

3 Negotiated deals                                                                           18
  3.1   Structure of the sale process . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
        3.1.1    Classic auction formats . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
        3.1.2    Practical complications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
        3.1.3    Auctions versus negotiations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
  3.2   Cash and stock offers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
  3.3   Conditional deal terms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
  * Alexander S. Gorbenko: a.gorbenko@ucl.ac.uk.




                                                   1
         3.3.1   Cash flow terms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
         3.3.2   Closing conditions and other deal terms     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
   3.4   Market misvaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
   3.5   Tender offers vs mergers and the M&A market evolution . . . . . . . . . . . 32

4 Initiation of deals and asset prices                                                       33
   4.1   Deals driven by economies of scale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
   4.2   Deals driven by inefficiencies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
   4.3   Asset pricing implications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
   4.4   Financial constraints and deal terms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
   4.5   Leverage and deals driven by financial distress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
   4.6   Private and common values . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
   4.7   Initiation of takeovers vs mergers and shareholder conflicts . . . . . . . . . . 46

5 Deals in industry equilibrium                                                              48
   5.1   Exogenous mergers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
   5.2   Endogenous merger decisions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
   5.3   What next? The quest for a unified model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52

6 Conclusion                                                                                 53




                                               2
1.        Introduction
The market for corporate control is one of the largest corporate markets with several trillion
dollars worth of M&A deals announced and completed annually. Over the years, there have
been multiple waves of merger activity, preceded and followed by new laws and regulations.
In the U.S. alone, the post-Second World War period included a tightening of antitrust laws
followed by a wave of diversifying mergers (conglomerates) in 1960s and early 1970s. The
1980s wave was characterized by divestitures and hostile takeovers conducted via tender of-
fers, which led to the creation of the modern M&A legal doctrine facilitating, among other
things, takeover defenses. The 1990s saw the rise of private equity deals with their creative
approach to the target company’s capital structure and incentives. Activist investors and
hedge funds became key to many deals in the 2000s. More recently, in 2020–2021 spe-
cial purpose acquisition vehicles (SPAC) accounted for approximately 20% of the U.S. deal
volume before their (timely) demise, while 2022–2023 saw the rise of deals that included
earnouts – and of inevitable lawsuits that followed weak performance of resulting business
combinations. In the UK, merger activity broadly kept pace with the U.S.; over the years,
the country also attracted foreign acquirers following rounds of privatization and deregula-
tion of financial services, utilities and telecom sectors. To study features and participants
of each of these trends, researchers came up with various theoretical frameworks.
       The unfortunate complication of this development is that, much like merger waves driven
by new economic and technological booms, laws, and regulations, these theoretical frame-
works tend to be disconnected.1 For example, a researcher or practitioner delving into
classic single-period models of tender offers and dispersed ownership would be hard-pressed
to understand the impact of conflicts among target shareholders on the timing of a takeover
attempt and its asset pricing implications. These issues are analyzed in the more recent
literature of M&A as real options, which, alas, ignores the above-mentioned conflicts. More-
over, a plethora of models with oftentimes conflicting assumptions significantly complicates
empirical researchers’ job to verify or reject theories. One can find evidence consistent with
a theory, but it can also be consistent with other theories, and tests against alternatives
   1
    This is the complication that theory of M&A shares – albeit to a lesser extent – with broad corporate
finance theory. Spiegel (2023) outlines challenges faced by theoretical research in corporate finance.


                                                   3
are hard to conduct when models are methodologically disconnected.
     Another complication is that there are currently few theories that study M&A in a com-
petitive equilibrium. To be clear, models of M&A auctions allow for competition among
potential acquirers for the target company at the deal stage. But there are few models
that study industry-level competition before and after the deal – even though M&A, pos-
sibly more than any other corporate action, change the competitive landscape. Moreover,
industry-level competition likely drives competition among potential acquirers for targets.
     With this in mind, the goal of this chapter is twofold. First, I aim to review both
classic and recent papers in each class of M&A models that has emerged over the years.
This includes models of (i) tender offers; (ii) “friendly” deals conducted via negotiations or
auctions with bids in cash or securities; (iii) M&A as real options with the focus on deal
timing and asset pricing implications; (iv) M&A and industry-level competition. Second,
I complement the review of each class of models by highlighting overlaps across classes,
particularly focusing on research that integrates classic approaches into a more general
framework. In the absence of such overlaps, I provide some thoughts that may prove useful
for future researchers interested in developing a more general, better connected M&A theory.
     The remainder of the chapter is structured as follows. Section 2 focuses on tender
offers. Section 3 examines friendly M&A conducted via negotiations or auctions. Section 4
discusses the implications of modeling deals as real options. Section 5 reviews models that
analyze industry-level effects of M&A. Section 6 concludes.



2.      Tender offers
A tender offer is a public offer by a potential acquirer to target shareholders to buy their
shares at a certain price. Most tender offers are conditional on reaching a certain fraction of
the target’s shares to gain control and possibly to squeeze out hold-out shareholders. E.g.,
in the state of Delaware a successful offer to buy at least 90% of company A’s shares at a
price of $20 would force hold-outs to sell their shares to the acquirer at $20. Importantly,
a tender offer does not require a consent of target management or board of directors.
     For this reason, hostile tender offers became the preferred method for corporations and


                                              4
private equity firms to effect disciplinary control changes in the U.S. and UK since the
early 1980s.2 In turn, managers of target companies learned to employ various takeover
defenses. Moreover, legal and regulatory changes of the late 1980s introduced more strin-
gent disclosure requirements and facilitated shareholder activism as an alternative method
of disciplining underperforming managers. Finally, the natural expansion and evolution of
the market for corporate control led to specialization of control-oriented investors, many of
whom would have arguably chosen shareholder activism even in the absence of the afore-
mentioned laws and regulations. These forces led to a decline in hostile takeovers since the
1990s.3 These days, tender offers are primarily conducted by private equity firms who tend
to have more credible pre-deal financing guarantees and coordinate their efforts with large
institutional target shareholders. Importantly, however, hostile takeovers remain a credi-
ble threat and continue shaping actions of companies in the market for corporate control,
because they remain residual options in otherwise unsuccessful activism campaigns.
      The class of models that studies tender offers focuses on the impact of conflicts of
interest among target shareholders on the outcome of an offer. The key building block is
that a potential acquirer makes a conditional or unconditional offer to target shareholders,
who then decide whether to accept it or not. In a rational-expectations equilibrium without
coordination, value-maximizing shareholders tender their shares if and only if the offer price
p is at least as high as the post-takeover share worth:


                              p ≥ E [e(deal terms; post-takeover actions)] .                 (1)


The post-takeover share worth e can depend on other terms of the offer (e.g., the fraction
of shares required by the acquirer or the amount of debt that it must assume to complete
the deal) and on post-takeover actions (e.g., investment, monitoring effort) undertaken by
the acquirer. Much of the theoretical literature on tender offers studies variations of this
general inequality, which in the remainder of this chapter will be referred to as the free-riding
condition for reasons that will be apparent soon.
      Section 2.1 outlines the core free-riding problem, and sections 2.2–2.6 examine solutions
  2
      Outside of common law jurisdictions, hostile takeovers remained rare.
  3
      See, e.g., Fos (2017) for the analysis of the evolution of takeover activity.


                                                        5
                                            Success       Failure
                                     Tender       p            v0
                                        Not      v1            v0


       Table I: Grossman and Hart (1980): Shareholder payoffs following the tender offer.


and settings in which this problem is mitigated.


2.1       The free-riding problem
The classic paper in this literature is Grossman and Hart (1980). It formalizes incentives
of small target shareholders to free-ride on an acquirer’s attempt to improve the value of
their company and shows that in some settings, the acquirer will not proceed to acquire the
target – despite much potential value creation. Much of the focus of the follow-up research
is to identify alternative settings and mechanisms that mitigate the free-riding problem.
It therefore is valuable to present the Grossman and Hart (1980) model and discuss the
assumptions that lead to their extreme result.
       Consider a target company owned by identical atomistic shareholders, who each own one
share (alternatively, assume indivisible holdings). The total number of shares is normalized
to 1; in what follows, this eliminates the difference between, e.g., share worth e and equity
worth. The company’s value under the current management is v0 . Its value under a more
efficient acquirer, who for unmodeled reasons cannot agree with the company’s management
on a friendly acquisition, is v1 > v0 . To unlock this value, the acquirer must gain control
of the company, i.e. own at least α shares. Additionally, it must pay restructuring cost c.4
The acquirer considers a conditional tender offer to buy α ≥ α shares at a price of p. Target
shareholders cannot coordinate their strategies. Everyone is risk-neutral, and everything in
the model is common knowledge.
       Payoffs of target shareholders for various combinations of their action (to tender their
share or not) and the outcome (a successful takeover or a failure) are presented in Table I.
Let the perceived probability of a successful takeover by a non-tendering shareholder be π.
   4
   The acquirer is assumed to always want to increase company value after a successful takeover. In some
more general follow-up papers, the acquirer’s choice is explicitly modeled.



                                                   6
Because shareholders are atomistic, they are unable to individually impact the fraction of
tendered shares, and hence a tendering shareholder will have the same perceived probability.
Then, for a tendering shareholder it must be that


                             πp + (1 − π)v0 ≥ πv1 + (1 − π)v0
                                      ⇒ p ≥ v1 .                                             (2)


This is the simplest version of the free-riding condition (1), in which the post-takeover share
worth e of a target is simply improved value v1 ; there are no additional deal terms such as
leverage that can impact this value; and there are no post-takeover actions such as effort
that the acquirer can undertake. In the setting of Grossman and Hart (1980), rational
shareholders free-ride on the acquirer’s attempt to improve the value of their company to
the extreme, capturing the entire surplus.
   Grossman and Hart (1980) assume that if the free-riding condition holds with equality
then all shareholders tender their shares. An alternative assumption, used in some follow-
up papers, is that at p = v1 indifferent shareholders tender their shares with probability
πS ∈ [α, 1) and believe that other shareholders do the same. Whichever set of assumptions
is used, the tender offer succeeds for p ≥ v1 . However, assuming success the acquirer’s
optimal profit is achieved at p = v1 and is negative: v1 − p − c = −c < 0. As a result,
a profit-maximizing acquirer has no incentives to initiate a tender offer – even though a
takeover is socially efficient when v1 − v0 − c > 0. To finish the discussion of possible
outcomes, even if condition (2) holds, a less interesting self-fulfilling equilibrium always
exists in which each shareholder believes that π = 0 (i.e., no other shareholders tender their
shares) and therefore does not participate in the tender offer as well.
   The market for corporate control in Grossman and Hart (1980) unravels because, expect-
ing a likely success of the tender offer, each shareholder is unable to affect the probability of
a success and hence prefers other shareholders to tender even at high prices. When everyone
refuses to tender, even value-improving offers do not succeed.




                                               7
2.2       Solutions to the problem
The extent of the free-riding problem outlined in section 2.1 has paved a way for research
aimed at identifying features and mechanisms of the market for corporate control that
could mitigate the problem and restore efficiency of deal-making – by moving a fraction of
a surplus from a potential deal from the target to the acquirer.
       Grossman and Hart (1980) show that value-creating deals will be made if the acquirer
has large private benefits of control b > c. In this case, its optimal profit is b − c > 0, and
it has incentives to initiate a tender offer. Alas, the target company cannot always rely
on finding such an acquirer. Value-creating deals will also be made if minority shareholder
protection laws in the jurisdiction of the post-takeover entity are weak.5 Suppose that value
loss to hold-out target shareholders is ∆v > c. Then, the bottom-left outcome in Table I
changes to v1 − ∆v, which in turn changes the free-riding condition to p ≥ v1 − ∆v. This
leads to the acquirer’s optimal profit of ∆v − c > 0. Thus, perhaps counterintuitively,
weak minority shareholder protection laws can facilitate disciplining takeovers. The same
result obtains if initial target shareholders write their corporate charter voluntarily allowing
for a value dilution of up to ∆v dollars by a successful acquirer.6 While such provisions
are at odds with equal treatment of shareholders, they may be essential for the efficient
functioning of the market for corporate control.
       Shleifer and Vishny (1986) study an acquirer who has a toehold in a target company:
                            c
a fraction of shares θ > v1 −v 0
                                 acquired at a low price before an attempt of a tender offer.7
While the free-riding condition (2) still applies, the acquirer’s profit upon success changes,
as it now benefits from increasing the value of its toehold from v0 to v1 : θ(v1 − v0 ) + (1 −
θ)(v1 − p) − c = θ(v1 − v0 ) − c > 0.
       Can an acquirer realistically accumulate a sufficiently large stake in a target at a low
price? In many jurisdictions, mandatory disclosure rules are triggered whenever an inter-
ested party buys a large block of a company’s shares. For example, as of October 2023 in
   5
     See, e.g., La Porta et al. (1998) for comparative analysis of shareholder protection laws.
   6
     The acquirer can achieve this by, e.g., issuing new shares to itself or selling some of the target’s assets
to its other businesses at a low value. A limit on value dilution, of course, would be better enforced in
jurisdictions with good minority shareholder protection laws.
   7
     Here, the assumption of common knowledge is maintained. In section 2.3, a general version of Shleifer
and Vishny (1986) is considered in which the acquirer has private information about efficient value v1 .


                                                       8
the U.S., a Schedule 13D form must be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC) within five business days8 of acquiring 5% of a company’s shares with the intent
of change of control, and amended within two days in an event of a material change (if
an additional 1% of shares is acquired or sold). Such rules limit the ability of a potential
acquirer to buy a large toehold without a price impact and thereby limit its profit from a
takeover. Moreover, even buying a small toehold may be complicated in the stock market
with fully rational shareholders. Liquidity trading, however, can facilitate this purchase,
as it limits informativeness of trades and provides camouflage for the acquirer. Kyle and
Vila (1991) formalize this intuition by incorporating elements of Grossman and Hart (1980)
and Shleifer and Vishny (1986) into a market microstructure framework; they require a
non-standard information structure to achieve closed-form solutions.
       Ravid and Spiegel (1999) consider a different model inspired by market microstructure
frictions and allow for two-tier tender offers subject to legal framework constraints, in which
one price is offered to target shareholders to gain control of the company and another
price – to squeeze out remaining hold-out shareholders. The minimum squeeze-out price
is court mandated.9 If a potential acquirer faces no competition for the target, it will not
have incentives to buy a toehold, as a toehold drives up the target’s stock price, thereby
increasing its perceived value and, in turn, the minimum squeeze-out price in the eyes of a
court. If there is some competition (modeled via sequential entry) then a relatively small
toehold gives the incumbent acquirer sufficient advantage. Fair price provisions, introduced
in some jurisdictions to ensure equal treatment of shareholders in takeovers, eliminate the
difference between the two prices and result in an efficient allocation of the target.
       Motivated by the at-the-time recent proposal by the European Commission to intro-
duce squeeze-out and sell-out rights, and an “equitable price” to be paid in a mandatory
bid10 , Burkart and Panunzi (2003) study the impact of these provisions on the free-riding
   8
      Previously, the deadline was ten calendar days.
   9
      This assumption is consistent with, e.g., the Delaware statute of the 1990s. Logically, untendered shares
are unlikely to retain their full value, as a takeover results in the legal dissolution of the target.
   10
      A squeeze-out right, as we have already seen, is the acquirer’s right to buy out hold-out shareholders
following a successful tender offer. A sell-out right is the hold-out shareholders’ right to sell their shares
following a successful tender offer, typically at the same price as in the offer. Both rights become available
to their respective holders if the acquirer holds more than 90-95% (depending on a jurisdiction) of target
shares after the tender offer. A mandatory bid must be made by the acquirer for remaining target shares


                                                      9
problem. They differentiate between good, value-creating acquirers and bad acquirers who
may be motivated by, e.g., private benefits. The squeeze-out right allows an acquirer to
overcome the free-riding problem; in particular, if the squeeze-out price is v0 then the free-
riding condition (1) is p ≥ v0 , and the acquirer collects the entire surplus from the takeover.
The opposite is true for the sell-out right: shareholders choose holding out over a value-
decreasing offer from a bad acquirer if the sell-out right is triggered when the acquirer gains
control of the target (i.e., holds at least 50% of shares). A mandatory bid is irrelevant if a
good acquirer is interested in a target company. However, it creates a pressure for share-
holders to tender and avoid being hold-outs if a bad acquirer makes the offer. Competition
(e.g., from the incumbent manager who can offer v0 ) further protects hold-out shareholders
if it pushes the offer by a bad acquirer above the current target value v0 .
    Gomes (2024) extends the model of Kyle and Vila (1991) to a dynamic setting, in which
arbitrageurs can camouflage their trades to accumulate a freeze-out stake in the target
company: a stake sufficient to prevent the triggering of a squeeze-out right. This threat
forces the acquirer to preemptively offer a high price.
    Yet another way for an acquirer to profitably accumulate a toehold and capture some of
the deal surplus is to engage in various disclosure circumvention tactics. First, it can create
a group with another interested party and buy a substantial combined stake in a target as
long as all members of the group stay below an appropriate disclosure threshold. Second,
the acquirer can purchase cash-settled equity swaps that track performance of the target
stock but do not trigger any physical delivery rights upon expiration. Once the acquirer
is ready for a takeover, it can cancel the swap and buy the target’s stock (which is often
conveniently held by the acquirer’s broker-dealer) at a favorable price, thereby immediately
gaining voting rights.11 SEC’s October 2023 amendments to reporting requirements in the
U.S.12 extend the definition of a group, impose group-level disclosure requirements (5% of
a company’s shares), and require disclosure of cash-settled security-based swaps and other
derivatives that are settled in cash. The goal is to restore the balance of power between
the target and acquirer in tender offers; whether this goal is likely to be achieved has, to
once its holdings cross a threshold at which they have effective control over the firm (e.g., 30% in the UK).
  11
     A classic example is the attempted and failed acquisition of Volkswagen by Porsche in 2008.
  12
     The document is available at https://www.sec.gov/files/rules/final/2023/33-11253.pdf .


                                                     10
my knowledge, not been addressed so far. The extension of the Grossman and Hart (1980)
framework to disclosure circumvention strategies seems quite straightforward.


2.3       Private information
The interaction between the free-riding problem and private information held by an acquirer
can lead to further inefficiencies. Grossman and Hart (1980) assume that everything in the
model is common knowledge; in turn, the acquirer cannot have information rents. Shleifer
and Vishny (1986) propose a general model, in which the acquirer has private information
about efficient value v1 ≥ v0 drawn from a commonly known distribution. The acquirer
learns v1 before it decides to make a tender offer; target shareholders can learn limited
information about v1 from the offer price. As in their simple model reviewed in section 2.2,
Shleifer and Vishny (1986) assume that the acquirer owns toehold θ.
       The free-riding condition (1) in the presence of asymmetric information is p ≥ E[v1 |p].
There is a unique outcome for any price p, if all target shareholders tender their shares
when they are indifferent.13 The acquirer’s incremental profit upon success is θ(v1 − v0 ) +
(1 − θ)(v1 − p) − c, so acquirers with values v1 ≥ (1 − α)p + αv0 + c make a tender offer.
Hence, the free-riding condition becomes


                                 p ≥ E[v1 |v1 ≥ (1 − α)p + αv0 + c].                                    (3)


Generally, there is a continuum of Perfect Bayesian Equilibria (PBE) with different offer
prices. However, the refinement of Grossman and Perry (1986)14 selects a unique equilib-
rium, in which the free-riding condition holds with equality and price p∗ is the lowest.
       The interaction between the free-riding problem and information asymmetry leads to
acquirers with values v1 ≥ p∗ extracting information rents at the expense of acquirers with
values v1 ∈ [(1 − α)p∗ + αv0 + c, p∗ ]. Moreover, information asymmetry can amplify the free-
riding problem. To see this, let c = 0 and v0 = 0. It is clear that, with perfect information,
  13
     See Hirshleifer and Titman (1990) for the analysis of equilibria, in which offers succeed at different
prices for different draws of v1 , and target shareholders tender their shares probabilistically.
  14
     Loosely, given prior beliefs, a deviation from a PBE can be done by those and only those acquirers that
would gain from it.



                                                    11
the acquirer has incentives to initiate an offer for any v1 . However, in Shleifer and Visnhy
(1986) sufficiently weak acquirers lack such incentives.


2.4     Large shareholders
In Grossman and Hart (1980), small target shareholders cannot affect the outcome of a
tender offer; in practice, large shareholders may want to give up some of the deal surplus
to improve its likelihood. Holmström and Nalebuff (1992) study a target company whose
shareholders are large and possibly different. A large shareholder can non-trivially change
the fraction of tendered shares and hence is likely to be pivotal for the success of a tender
offer. It therefore will be willing to accept a lower offer price in exchange for a higher chance
of a deal. For now, assume that each of n shareholders owns one share; this assumption will
be relaxed later. k tendered shares ensure the acquirer’s success. Assume that a tendering
                                                                        P
shareholder gets price p with probability πH and v0 otherwise. πH = Pr( −i tj ≥ k − 1) is
the probability that at least k − 1 other shareholders also tender (tj are their 0/1 tendering
choices). Assume further that a non-tendering shareholder gets v1 with probability πL < πH
                           P
and v0 otherwise. πL = Pr( −i tj ≥ k) is the probability that at least k other shareholders
tender. Finally, focus on the symmetric mixed strategy equilibrium, which is unique in this
setting.15 Then, the free-riding condition (1) for each of the shareholders becomes


                                    p ≥ E[e] = λv1 + (1 − λ) v0 ,                                     (4)


where the expected share worth E[e] depends on a shareholder’s perceived gap between
probabilities of a successful offer given its tendering choice, captured by λ = ππHL . In other
words, (1 − λ)(v1 − v0 ) is the discount a shareholder is willing to accept to improve the deal
likelihood. In equilibrium, the acquirer sets a price that makes shareholders just indifferent
between tendering and not, which in turn makes them select an individual probability of
tendering to be consistent with group probabilities πH and πL .16
  15
     There are many other equilibria in which shareholders coordinate on who tenders and who does not.
Such coordination, while possible, is less likely for companies with a reasonably broad shareholder base –
and is outright illegal in some jurisdictions.
  16
     Unlike Grossman and Hart (1980), Holmström and Nalebuff (1992) do not assume that an indifferent
shareholder tenders with certainty and allow this probability to be determined in equilibrium.


                                                   12
   If the shareholder base n grows very large and the probability of their being pivotal ap-
proaches zero – eliminating the difference between πL and πH – then condition (4) converges
to (2), and the acquirer, again, does not make a tender offer. However, this result critically
relies on the assumption that each shareholder only holds one share, and hence must either
tender all or none of its holdings. Assume, instead, that each shareholder holds m shares
and, in equilibrium, tenders l shares. Then, the free-riding condition for l-th share becomes


                                     pl ≥ λl v1 + (1 − λl )v0 ,                                 (5)


where λl = πL π−(m−l)(π  H −πL )
                L +l(πH −πL )
                                 . Tendering l-th share gives a shareholder the offer price for that
share and improves the deal likelihood, thus increasing the value of remaining m − l shares;
the cost of tendering this share is the ability to free-ride on it. The higher is l, the less the
shareholder benefits from being pivotal, and hence the higher is the price pl it requires to
tender its next share. In fact, the hardest share for the shareholder to sell is its last one. If
m = l = 1, condition (5) becomes (4).
   Holmström and Nalebuff (1992) show that in the symmetric mixed-strategy equilibrium,
each shareholder retains m−l∗ −1 shares with certainty; tenders one share with an individual
probability consistent with group probabilities πH and πL in (5); and tenders remaining l∗
shares with certainty. Moreover, if target shareholders are asymmetric in their holdings,
the mixed-strategy equilibrium still stipulates that each retains the same number of shares
with certainty and tenders one share probabilistically. Hence, with asymmetric owners it
is large shareholders who end up tendering their shares; small shareholders free-ride. The
acquirer therefore benefits the most if target ownership concentration is high; the worst
scenario for it is if ownership is distributed broadly and uniformly. Because shareholders
with divisible holdings continue to care about their retained shares even when they become
very small, they still accept a discount, and the acquirer may still profit – and conduct
efficient deals – even in the limit with atomistic shareholders.
   Of course, as is often the case with mixed equilibria, one has to wonder whether small
shareholders indeed randomize among their choices in reality, and to what extent they are
capable of incorporating the probability of being pivotal into their decisions. It is also worth
mentioning that the mixed equilibrium considered above is sensitive to a collusion between

                                                13
shareholders (especially if they are large) and the acquirer.


2.5       Endogenous value creation and deal terms
Grossman and Hart (1980) consider exogenous efficient value v1 . Free-riding then ensures
that conditional on a success the acquirer is indifferent among buying any fraction of target
shares in the interval [α, 1]. Burkart, Gromb, and Panunzi (1998) add moral hazard to
the classic model and ask whether this friction alleviates or exacerbates the free-riding
problem. Specifically, the acquirer is allowed to divert fraction ϕ of value v1 to generate
private benefits ϕ − c(ϕ), where c(·) is strictly increasing, twice differentiable and convex,
such that c(0) = 0, c′ (0) = 0, c′ (1) = 1. In contrast to the paper, to be consistent with
some follow-up literature I choose a different version of the moral hazard friction with very
similar predictions: the acquirer is allowed to exert post-takeover effort a to generate value
av1 at private cost c(a).17 The idea is that dispersed target shareholders lack incentives,
coordination, or skills to bring about their own value improvements. Whichever form the
friction takes, atomistic shareholders with indivisible holdings still free-ride on the acquirer’s
effort and capture the entire deal surplus, unless the acquirer is able to somehow exclude
them from some of the gains (e.g., by diluting their shares). Formally, optimal effort
maximizes the post-takeover value of the acquirer:


                                        αav1 − c(a) → max,                                               (6)
                                                            a


where α is its equity stake. Given assumptions about c(a), there is a unique strictly positive
solution a∗ (α), which is increasing in α, bringing about a higher post-takeover value.
       Next, consider target shareholders. Each shareholder forms beliefs about the acquirer’s
post-takeover equity stake and therefore its effort; in a rational expectations equilibrium,
these beliefs lead to the free-riding condition


                                        p ≥ e(a∗ (α)) = a∗ (α)v1 .                                       (7)
  17
    This setting is isomorphic to a more general setting with a strictly increasing, twice differentiable and
concave v(a).




                                                     14
At the point of an offer, the acquirer attempts to reduce the surplus extracted by target
shareholders in a deal. This is achieved by minimizing the post-takeover value, or minimiz-
ing α: α = α. In turn, there is maximal underprovision of post-takeover effort.
   Burkart, Gromb, and Panunzi (1998) address the value of the supermajority – or shark
repellent – provision (control over the company is gained if α > 12 ) that some company
founders include in their corporate charters as a takeover defense. A higher α increases
effort provision by the acquirer and, in turn, deal surplus. Of course, the acquirer must
be incentivized to make a tender offer in the first place, which can be achieved by limited
dilution provisions as discussed in section 2.2.
   A slightly more complicated version of the model with probabilistic tendering decisions
studies pros and cons of having multiple classes of shares with different voting rights. A sin-
gle class of shares may deter too many takeovers; shares with better voting rights facilitate
them. This is because a high concentration of voting rights lowers the fraction of cash flow
rights that the acquirer needs to buy (via shares with better voting rights) to gain control.
While multiple-class share structure harms effort provision and deal surplus, the acquirer’s
profit improves, incentivizing it to initiate an offer and increasing the deal likelihood.
   Müller and Panunzi (2004) consider yet another way for an acquirer to extract surplus
from dispersed shareholders: by issuing debt against the target company’s cash flows. The
strategy to lever up the target instead of the combined company is called “bootstrapping”
and is commonly used by private equity firms. Assume that at the time of a tender offer,
the acquirer pledges d of a target’s cash flows to receive f (d) ≤ d of cash upon deal success.
The acquirer does not need to be financially constrained to want to issue debt – it does
it exclusively to pocket f (d) of deal surplus. If the offer is successful, the target company
becomes levered and non-tendering shareholders receive max {v1 − d, 0} < v1 . The free-
riding condition is therefore


                                 p ≥ e(d) = max {v1 − d, 0} .                                (8)


Because debt has higher seniority than levered equity, the post-takeover share worth, and
hence the offer price that ensures success, decrease in the amount of deal-level debt. The
acquirer does not benefit from this decrease, as it pays a full price for levered equity.

                                              15
However, it benefits from pocketing the proceeds of debt issuance; the largest feasible debt,
d∗ = v1 − v0 , maximizes the acquirer’s profit f (d∗ ) − c. For leverage in excess of d∗ , target
shareholders prefer that the company remain standalone.
   While Müller and Panunzi (2004) provide a reasonable explanation for the use of “lev-
ered bootstrapping,” some of their model’s predictions are inconsistent with the data. First,
in the model high leverage reduces the premium paid to target shareholders; second, com-
petition among bidders lowers leverage; third, high leverage can be inefficient.
   In response to this critique, Burkart, Lee, and Petri (2023) attempt to explain several
features of private equity (LBO) financing by merging models of Burkart, Gromb, and
Panunzi (1998) and Müller and Panunzi (2004). In their setting, the acquirer issues debt
at the deal level, levering up the target instead of the combined company. The acquirer
can also exert post-takeover effort. The optimal level of effort maximizes the post-takeover
equity value of the acquirer:


                                α max{av1 − d, 0} − c(a) → max .                             (9)
                                                              a


Optimal effort is not necessarily equal to a∗ (α) that maximizes the post-takeover firm value
in equation (6): if the firm is sufficiently levered, i.e., when equation (9) is negative at
a∗ (α), then debt overhang leads to no effort provision.
   In a rational expectations equilibrium, the free-riding condition is now


                        p ≥ e(d; a∗ (α, d)) = max {a∗ (α, d)v1 − d, 0} .                    (10)


The model justifies both bootstrapping via high leverage (as compared to takeovers by
corporate acquirers) and upfront payouts to investors in LBOs as an efficient deal structure,
whereby an acquirer extracts surplus from target shareholders via debt but provides value-
creating effort which results in high offer prices and post-takeover values. In one of the
extensions, the paper incorporates competition among potential acquirers in its most basic
form (acquirers possess no private information). More competition leads to a higher deal-
level leverage and, in turn, a higher takeover surplus: the acquirer can pledge more of the
target’s cash flows in the form of debt knowing that it can provide more post-takeover


                                               16
effort. These results are consistent with empirical observations.
       Burkart, Gromb, Mueller, Panunzi (2014) consider interactions between shareholder
protection laws and potential acquirers’ outside funding capacity. Legal protections limit
acquirers’ private benefits and value diversion, thereby making takeovers less likely; at the
same time, they increase the efficient value v1 , which can act as a collateral to receive more
outside funding. With a single potential acquirer, the increase in v1 leads to a one-to-one
increase in the offer price to induce shareholders to tender; competition among acquirers
is therefore required for legal protections to be associated with more active takeover mar-
kets, as shown in the empirical literature. Moreover, legal protections improve efficiency
of takeovers, because they allow better but more cash-constrained acquirers to use more
external financing to outbid worse but more wealthy competitors.


2.6       Activist investors
Burkart and Lee (2022) compare shareholder activism and tender offers from the perspective
of a control investor considering a toehold in a target company with atomistic shareholders.
The only modeled difference between the two roles is that an activist runs a costly campaign
to enact changes, while an acquirer must pay the tender offer price to gain control and effect
these costly changes on its own. Value-improving effort provision is more socially efficient
in a takeover but is unattractive to the acquirer when it expects to provide much effort
and it leads to a high tender offer price. Shareholder activism, on the other hand, is
typically conducted with a small stake in the target, leading to underprovision of effort; it
is unattractive to the activist – who, unlike the acquirer, is not concerned with the tender
offer price – when such low levels of effort do not have a substantial positive impact on the
target. A follow-up paper, Burkart, Lee, and Voss (2025), endogenizes a control investor’s
choice to become an acquirer or activist investor that pushes the target towards a friendly
merger with an outside buyer; it is therefore covered in the next section.18
  18
    While unrelated methodologically, here it is useful to cite Edmans, Goldstein, and Jiang (2015), who
study feedback from the financial market to corporate decisions and discuss the limited disciplining role of
informed activist investors in value-destroying takeover attempts.




                                                    17
3.        Negotiated deals
In negotiated deals, which I call mergers in the remainder of this chapter, management
teams and boards of two companies interested in a business combination agree on terms of
the deal, before the merger agreement is presented for shareholder approval. It is often the
case that one of these companies (the target) negotiates with multiple interested parties
(acquirers) at early stages of the process of finding a suitable business combination, and
therefore possesses some power to set up a competitive process among its suitors. For
these reasons, unlike the literature on tender offers which focuses on conflicts among target
shareholders who are approached by the acquirer directly, the literature on negotiated
deals has historically focused on the impact of the competitive selling process and (often
unobserved) heterogeneity among potential acquirers on deal outcomes.19
       Section 3.1 starts with the overview of several classic auction formats that have been
used to approximate the process of a target negotiating a deal with potential acquirers.
Features of competitive M&A processes that make them different from classic auctions are
then discussed. Next, the target’s choice between running an auction and a sequential
negotiation process is analyzed. Section 3.2 discusses the target’s ability to commit to
accepting cash or stock swap offers, as well as acquirers’ preferences over these offers.
Section 3.3 adds conditional deal terms, such as contingent value rights (CVR), earnouts,
and due diligence closing conditions, into the mix. Section 3.4 discusses the impact of
market misvaluation on the process and outcomes. Section 3.5 incorporates insights of
section 2 and examines settings in which the target may be sold either via a hostile tender
offer or in a friendly manner. Dasgupta and Hansen (2007) is an excellent complementary
read on auctions in corporate finance, while Eckbo, Malenko, and Thorburn (2020) offer
another brief review of the theory of competitive selling processes in M&A.
  19
     Of course, negotiated deals are not devoid of shareholder conflicts: the deal still must be voted on by
both target and acquirer shareholders. For example, in the acquisition of Xstrata by Glencore in 2013, the
initial formal offer was blocked by a small group of target shareholders because Glencore was not allowed to
vote their shares in the target. However, the difficulty of adding multiple shareholders on both the target’s
and potential acquirers’ side into already complex models of bargaining and auctions that will be covered
below, as well as high rates of shareholder approval of negotiated deals has likely prompted the researchers
to omit shareholder conflicts in this strand of literature. The literature on tender offers, in contrast, has
incorporated shareholder conflicts and even competition among potential acquirers, but largely ignored
asymmetric information among them.


                                                     18
3.1       Structure of the sale process
I first present some of the classic results from the auction theory. Krishna (2010) provides
proofs and analyzes robustness of these results to some assumptions. I then discuss the
applicability of these results in the context of M&A.


3.1.1      Classic auction formats

Consider an auction for a target with n symmetric risk-neutral potential acquirers, who
draw their signals about the target’s value from the same commonly known Uniform distri-
bution on interval [0, 1]. The target’s value under current management is v0 = 0.20 For now,
let acquirers have private values for the target vi = si : no information about rivals’ signals
makes them re-value it. In the market for corporate control, private values better approx-
imate the setting in which strategic acquirers (companies in the same or related industry,
who primarily pursue company-specific operational synergies) compete for a target.21
       Assume that the target can commit to organize a competitive selling process in the form
of either a first-price or a second-price, or an English auction, and to only accept offers in
cash. In a first-price auction, each acquirer submits a single sealed bid, and the highest
bidder pays its bid and merges with the target; in a second-price auction, it instead pays
the second-highest bid. In an English auction, acquirers engage in an open bidding contest
in which the cash bid increases continuously (e.g., the target keeps raising it), and each
bidder drops out once the bid becomes unsustainable. The last bidder standing then pays
the bid at which the second-highest bidder drops out.
       Each of these auction formats has a unique equilibrium with bidding strategies

                                    n−1
                      bFi (si ) =       si ;   bSi (si ) = si ;   bE          S
                                                                   i (si ) = bi (si ) = si .              (11)
                                     n
  20
     v0 > 0 means that the target that faces an offer below v0 (its reservation value) prefers to remain
standalone; see Krishna (2010) for the analysis of this setting.
  21
     The term “private values” includes the case of acquirers who have both a publicly known common
component and a privately known component in their values for the target. For example, an alternative
way to present acquirers’ values in my example
                                             is to say that they have a common component Ev = 0.5 and a
symmetric private adjustment si on interval − 21 , 12 . In practice, Ev can be a function of various observable
target and deal characteristics; “private values” can therefore approximate many real-world settings. In
contrast, the term “common values” formalized later in the section refers to the case of acquirers who have
private information about Ev, which is of common interest.


                                                       19
Intuitively, in the second-price auction (S) acquirer i does not bid above its value because
it risks winning the auction and making negative profit if its strongest rival’s bid is above
vi = si . It also does not bid below its value because it forfeits positive profit if its strongest
rival’s bid is above its bid but below vi . Hence, bSi (si ) = si is a weakly dominant strategy. In
the first-price auction (F ), acquirer i bids less than vi , or else it makes non-positive profit;
there is less bid shading when the acquirer must outbid more rivals.22 Finally, because
private-value acquirers do not update their values upon learning about their rivals’ signals
via the bidding process, the bid in the English auction (E) at which acquirer i is prepared
to drop out is the same as its bid in the second-price auction. All auction formats are
efficient: the target is acquired by the bidder with the highest value. Moreover, they are
revenue-equivalent (Riley and Samuelson, 1981; Myerson, 1981), each delivering expected
revenue n−1
        n+1
            to the target, which makes it indifferent among formats.
       Consider now acquirers who have interdependent values, such that rivals’ signals may
make them re-value the target. Specifically, if si are acquirers’ signals about the target’s
value then vi = αsi + (1 − α)s̄−i , α ≥ n1 are their values for the target as a function of
the average of rivals’ signals s̄−i . The case of α = n1 is known as common values. In
the market for corporate control, common values better approximate the setting in which
financial acquirers (e.g., private equity funds) compete for a target, or when the target
underperforms so that its acquirers consider employing common restructuring strategies.
       Each of the first-price, second-price, and English auction formats has a unique symmetric
equilibrium with bidding strategies

                       n−1
         bFi (si ) =       Evi (si );   bSi (si ) = Evi (si );   bE           S
                                                                  i (si ) ̸= bi (si ) (unless n = 2),         (12)
                        n
                                                                  
                                                               n
                                         
where Evi (si ) = E vi |si , s(1:n−1) = si = si α + (1 − α) 2(n−1)   is the expected value to
acquirer i when both its signal and its strongest rival’s signal is si . Intuitively, in the
second-price auction, the interdependent-value acquirer faces the winner’s curse: bidding
its signal and winning makes it realize that its rivals’ signals are lower, which in turn makes it
re-value the target downwards and experience ex-post regret. In expectation of the winner’s
  22
     More generally, bF
                      i (si ) = E[v
                                    (1:n−1) (1:n−1)
                                           |s       < si ], where v (1:n−1) = s(1:n−1) is the highest, out of n − 1,
rival valuation that the acquirer must outbid.


                                                         20
curse, the acquirer shades its bid: Evi (si ) < si for n > 2. As with private values, in the first-
price auction the acquirer further shades its bid. Finally, in the English auction strategies
of interdependent-value acquirers are different from the second-price auction unless n = 2.
This is because, observing bids at which some of their rivals drop out, acquirers infer
rivals’ signals and update their own values and strategies; moreover, they do not face the
winner’s curse because they know that signals of remaining rivals are sufficiently high, or
else they would have dropped out.23 While all auction formats are efficient24 , they are no
longer revenue-equivalent: second-price and English auctions deliver weakly higher expected
revenue to the target. If acquirers’ signals are also affiliated (strongly positively correlated)
then the English auction is weakly better for the target than the second-price auction.


3.1.2      Practical complications

Classic auction models omit many important complications faced by competing acquirers
in reality, yet they can majorly impact deal surplus and its division between counterparties.
First, acquirers are likely to be asymmetric ex-ante, before they conduct due diligence
(“learn their signals”) and update their value of the target. Lebrun (1999) and Kaplan and
Zamir (2012, 2015) derive equilibrium bidding strategies and discuss potential multiplicity
of equilibria in a first-price auction with ex-ante asymmetric private-value bidders, while
Gorbenko and Malenko (2024) extend the analysis to interdependent-value bidders. Chen
and Wang (2023) show that it may be in the interest of the target company to treat even
ex-ante symmetric bidders asymmetrically (e.g., to save on entry costs), provided that such
treatment would not be perceived unfair and trigger litigation.
       Second, classic models of English auctions, commonly perceived as more representative
of the dynamic nature of a negotiation between the target and multiple bidders, ignore
acquirers’ strategies to increase their bids by large increments (“jump bidding”) despite their
pervasiveness in practice. Daniel and Hirshleifer (2018) focus on private-value acquirers, for
whom bidding is costly. In the absence of costs, acquirers’ bids rise by a small increment.
However, even low bidding costs can lead to large jump bids that convey a bidder’s strength
  23
   The exact bidding strategies in this case are recursive; see Krishna (2010).
   This result may no longer hold if α < n1 , that is, if some acquirers believe their rivals’ signals to be
  24

more informative.


                                                    21
to rivals and may make them drop out at low prices, improving the acquirer’s profit and
lowering its follow-on bidding costs. In contrast, weak acquirers have stronger incentives to
delay their bids as they assess strength of their competition. The auction with jump bids
is efficient and delivers revenue comparable to the first-price auction to the target.
   Avery (1998) studies strategic jump bidding between two interdependent-value acquirers
with affiliated signals. Jump bids are used to intimidate rivals and stifle competition:
they inform early on that an acquirer likely has a high value, and winning against it may
entail a strong winner’s curse. The alternative interpretation is that jump bids coordinate
auction participants on a specific, at times uncompetitive, equilibrium during the remaining
negotiation process. In this setting, the greater the importance of jump bidding the more
the outcome of the English auction resembles a first-price auction. Jump bids also reduce
expected revenue to the target: depending on the level of coordinated competition after
such a bid, any revenue between that in the first-price and English auction with continuous
bids is possible. Other notable papers that model jump bids are Fishman (1988), Hirshleifer
and Png (1990) and Bhattacharya (1992).
   Third, bidding in contested M&A deals often proceeds in multiple rounds, between
which the target uses current information about bidders as well as their offers to either
allow them into the next round or exclude them from further bidding. Early-round bids
can either be formal or informal; in the former case, a bid must be paid by the winner; in
the latter case, the acquirer can withdraw the bid. McAdams and Schwarz (2007) consider a
target that cannot credibly commit to a number of formal bidding rounds but can commit
to excluding some bidders after each round. They show that in each round, the target
optimally sets an upper bound on bids that earn admission into the next round, trading off
expected revenue against bad reputation for nickel-and-diming its suitors and delay costs.
Private-value acquirers with sufficiently high values shade their bids in early rounds, bidding
at the round’s upper bound and proceeding into the next round; if only one such acquirer
bids high, it ends up the winner. The number of rounds, as well as target revenue, depends
on acquirers’ values; in particular, a prolonged process with many strong bidders may lead
to large target losses due to delay. However, the auction remains efficient. An intermediary
who can help the target commit to a process with few rounds can minimize its losses.


                                              22
       Quint and Hendricks (2018) study early-round informal bidding by private-value ac-
quirers, who have prior signals about the target’s value. Those who are allowed into the
final round can update their signals at a cost and submit formal bids. In the early round,
acquirers pool over a finite number of informal bids that are weakly increasing in their
signals, providing the target with imperfect information about ex-ante best acquirers, some
but not necessarily all of whom are admitted into the final round. Because of this, the
auction is generally inefficient; however, restricting entry into the final round is beneficial
for the target when the number of suitors is sufficiently high.


3.1.3      Auctions versus negotiations

Continuing the discussion of important practical complications, while around 50% of M&A
deals entail competition among potential acquirers25 , other deals are negotiated with a single
acquirer. Moreover, some competitive deals do not resemble auctions but rather sequential
or simultaneous negotiations with acquirers. Why would a target want to spend effort
and time on complex negotiations rather than on finding suitable acquirers and running an
auction? Bulow and Klemperer (1996) show that with symmetric independent private-value
acquirers, an auction with n + 1 participants always delivers a higher expected revenue to
the target than any negotiation with n participants. To illustrate this, consider the private-
value setting described in section 3.1.1. In one-round negotiations, the optimal strategy for
the target is to offer a take-it-or-leave it price p that maximizes its expected revenue, given
that at least one of the acquirers has signal above p: p · (1 − pn ) → maxp gives

                                                         1
                                             p=                 1   .                                  (13)
                                                   (n + 1) n

                                                      n
The optimal expected target’s revenue is                  n+1   , and is generically lower than expected
                                                  (n+1)    n
         n
revenue n+2 from an auction with n+1 acquirers.26 Of course, negotiations can be conducted
in a more sophisticated way and can even include auction rounds (“negotiauctions” is the
term sometimes used in practice to describe such deal structures). In this case, the optimal
  25
    E.g., Boone and Mulherin (2007); Gorbenko and Malenko (2014).
  26
    Recall that with independent private values, all auction formats considered in section 3.1.1 are revenue
equivalent.


                                                    23
way to structure a negotiated sale for the target is to run, say, an English auction among
n acquirers, eliciting the second-highest value, and then to make a take-it-or-leave-it offer
to the winner. However, this optimal mechanism is still worse for the target than to invite
an additional ex-ante equally strong acquirer into the auction.27
       The result of Bulow and Klemperer (1996) crucially depends on several assumptions.
For example, if acquirers are ex-ante asymmetric in ways observable to the target, it can
negotiate with a subset of strong acquirers rather than run an auction which may elicit a low
winning offer from a strong acquirer due to weak competition. To illustrate this, consider
the same example as before but let one (strong) acquirer have publicly known value v1 ≡ 1,
while other (weak) acquirers have their private values drawn from the Uniform distribution
on interval [0, 1]. In negotiations with the the strong acquirer, the target can offer a take-
it-or-leave-it price 1 and guarantee revenue 1. In a second-price or English auction with
                                                                                     n
n + 1 acquirers (one strong and n weak), however, expected target’s revenue is only n+1
(the expected value of the highest weak acquirer). In the first-price auction, it is also clear
that the strong acquirer would shade its bid, delivering expected revenue below 1.
       Another reason why negotiations may sometimes be chosen over auctions in practice is
risk aversion on the part of decision makers in the target: in auctions, the outcome is much
less predictable. Yet another complication is affiliated signals. Cremer and McLean (1985),
McAfee at al. (1989), and McAfee and Reny (1992) show that if signals are interdependent
then the target can, theoretically, design a sale process that would extract the entire surplus
from acquirers. However, Lopomo (1995) shows that an auction followed by a take-it-or-
leave-it offer remains optimal and efficient if the target cannot force losing participants to
pay.28 Under same conditions, therefore, the target benefits from attracting an additional
acquirer and running a simple auction.
       Auctions may also not deliver the highest revenue to the target if acquirers must pay
       The take-it-or-leave-it offer price following the English auction with the winning bid b∗E
  27
                                                                                                        ∗E 1
                                                                                               i is max bi , 2 ,
                               n−1+ 1 n    n
leading to expected revenue n+12 < n+2        . Moreover, a reverse order of actions, i.e., a negotiation followed
by an auction, is clearly inferior in this setting: it is never optimal for the target to lock up into a price, if
the same bid can be elicited in the auction.
  28
     The inability of the target to make losing bidders pay is a reasonable assumption if the deal occurs in
a very competitive industry but less so if the deal occurs in a concentrated industry, where the combined
company can make unsuccessful acquirers “pay” by being a stronger product market competitor.



                                                        24
entry or bidding costs to compete. Bulow and Klemperer (2009) show that sequential nego-
tiations with independent private-value acquirers, who arrive in turn and decide whether to
compete or not based on the bidding history, are always more efficient than a simultaneous
auction, as they result in a higher expected value of the winner less aggregate entry costs.
This is because, while sequential negotiations attract fewer acquirers in expectation, the
target ends up talking to more acquirers exactly when they are most needed: when earlier
rounds of negotiations result in low offers. The downside of the sequential procedure is
that strong early acquirers submit sufficiently large jump bids to stifle competition, thus
harming the target’s revenue.
       Bulow and Klemperer (2009) show that auctions typically deliver higher expected tar-
get’s revenue, unless there are many interested acquirers, and the target can commit to
a sequentially negotiated sale process with bidding in small increments (to prohibit large
jump bids that stifle competition). Target-subsidized entry of competitors further favors
sequential negotiation processes, while the ability of the currently best acquirer to walk
away from the deal if the target continues looking for a better offer favors auctions instead.


3.2       Cash and stock offers
A large fraction of acquirer bids in M&A includes non-cash elements, and most of these
are stock swaps (or stock offers), in which target shareholders are offered a stake in the
combined company.29 It is therefore important to understand whether cash or stock offers
deliver a higher revenue for targets, and, in turn, why acquirers sort into one or the other
type of an offer, or even mix them.
       Hansen (1985) is the classic paper that studies auctions with stock bids. Consider our
earlier example with independent private-value acquirers. The new assumption is that upon
winning the auction, an acquirer must pay exogenous cost c to realize its value vi = si . To
make sure that acquirers want to participate in the auction, further assume that their signals
are drawn from the Uniform distribution on interval [c, 1 + c]. As in the earlier example,
then, the NPV of value improvements si − c is on interval [0, 1]. In a second-price auction
  29
    E.g., Eckbo, Makaew, and Thorburn (2018) show that in early 2010s approximately 50% of offers made
by US public bidders included some stock consideration. This fraction has increased since 2022, because
high interest rate environment has made financing cash offers much costlier.


                                                  25
with stock bids, each acquirer offers fraction

                                                              si − c
                                                αiS (si ) =                                                    (14)
                                                                si

of the acquired company’s new value vi = si 30 : as with cash bids, this offer equates its
net value improvement si − c with payment αiS si . Let acquirer 1 be the winner against its
strongest rival 2. For any combination of signals s1 > s2 , target’s revenue in the second-
price auction with stock bids is higher than when bids are in cash: α2S (s2 )s1 = (s2 − c) ss12 >
s2 − c = bS2 (s2 ) ≥ 0. In turn, expected target’s revenue with stock bids is higher than n−1
                                                                                          n+1
                                                                                              ,
a familiar expected revenue when bids are in cash. Linking the second-highest bid to the
winner’s value in the payment allows the target to extract more rents; as will be clear in
section 3.3, this result is also true for auctions with bids in other securities whose values
are sensitive to acquirers’ information. Clearly, if the target can commit to a medium of
exchange (a class of securities used as bids), in Hansen (1985) it prefers stock over cash.
The acquirers, however, prefer cash bids.
       Fishman (1989) extends the model of preemptive jump bids in Fishman (1988) by al-
lowing acquirers to select among cash and stock bids. Two acquirers must conduct costly
due diligence before learning their independent private signals si . The target possesses a
standalone value v0 . Acquirer 1 is assumed to have identified the target and can make an
initial offer. In this case, acquirer 2 discovers the target and can counteroffer, initiating an
English auction. Before the contest starts, the target learns its own private signal s0 about
the functional form of acquirers’ values: v(si ) < v(si ).
       The value of stock offers is sensitive to acquirers’ information; such offers allow the
target to efficiently accept or reject acquirers given its own information about their values.
To induce the target to accept an informationally insensitive cash offer instead, it has to
be sufficiently high, making it particularly costly for weak acquirers. In turn, strong initial
acquirers sort into cash bids, which are costly but effective at preempting competition by
signaling high value. Weak initial acquirers sort into stock bids, which – unlike the low-
                                                                                                                −c
  30
    In reality, the acquirer will offer a fraction of the newly combined company. In this case, αiS (si ) = vsai+si
                                                                                                                    ,
where va is acquirers’ value. It is also possible, albeit cumbersome, to deal with acquirer-specific values: as
long as they are publicly known, the target can infer and compare values of all bids.



                                                         26
value cash alternative that these acquirers could have submitted instead – are accepted
by the target, but signal acquirers’ low value and often attract competition. In turn, cash
offers yield higher acquirer’s abnormal announcement returns. A decrease in the cost of due
diligence (relevant these days, as much of due diligence has shifted to virtual data rooms)
decreases the likelihood of a preemptive cash offer and increases the likelihood of a contest.
       Eckbo, Giammarino, and Heinkel (1990) study the choice of a mix of cash and stock in
a bid. They consider a single acquirer with a private value for the target, and a target that
privately knows its reservation value. While cash-only or stock-only offers do not allow the
acquirer to perfectly signal its value to the target, it is possible via a mix of cash and stock,
such that the value (and hence acquirer’s abnormal announcement returns) is increasing
and convex in the amount of cash in the offer.
       Hoffmann and Vladimirov (2025) study the impact of cash and stock bids on the choice
between auctions and negotiations. A target trying to sell itself to many (n+1) independent
private-value acquirers does not have enough information about its suitors, and hence is
assumed to conduct an English auction in cash bids for fear of ending up in a stock swap
with uncertain perspectives. In contrast, a target trying to sell itself to few (n) acquirers
is more likely to perform due diligence on them, and hence is assumed to conduct at
least some individual negotiations, in which both cash and stock offers are allowed.31 The
target’s assets are complements to acquirers’ assets if the difference in the probability of
the acquirers’ “success” with and without the target increases in their signal; otherwise,
the target’s assets are substitutes.
       In the complements case, the target makes a take-it-or-leave-it stock offer in negotiations,
as this helps it extract more revenue from productive acquirers who at the same time have
high willingness to pay. Recall that in Bulow and Klemperer (1996), auctions in cash
bids with an extra bidder are preferred to negotiations with cash offers; in Hoffman and
Vladimirov (2025), negotiations with stock offers are better in terms of target revenue
than with cash offers, and can in fact be better than auctions in cash bids with an extra
bidder. In contrast, in the substitutes case, cash offers are preferred to stock offers in
negotiations, as the value of cash does not deteriorate when acquirers with high willingness
  31
     As in Bulow and Klemperer (1996), optimal negotiations entail an auction round among n acquirers
followed by a take-it-or-leave-it offer by the target to the winner; this offer can be made in cash or stock.


                                                     27
to pay but low productivity win. In turn, results of Bulow and Klemperer (1996) apply
and auctions are preferred to negotiations. Dispersion and magnitude of acquirers’ signals
further favor negotiations. These results are consistent with the empirical literature on the
method of payment in auctions and negotiations, as well as in deals with various degrees of
complementarity between merging parties.


3.3       Conditional deal terms
Acquirers often include various conditional terms into their offers to targets. For example,
collar offers in stock swaps are sometimes used. Some of the large U.S. deals included
contingent value rights (CVR) that were designed to protect target shareholders against
downside movements in the combined company’s price post-acquisition.32 Many deals done
in the high interest rate environment of 2022–2024 included earnouts that were designed to
bridge the gap between acquirers’ and targets’ valuations, and to reward target shareholders
only if their beliefs about a successful business combination materialize. In addition to
conditional cash flow terms, conversion of an offer into a completed deal can be contingent
on various closing conditions such as continued due diligence, availability of financing, and
clearance of antitrust and other legal hurdles. It is therefore important to study the value
of these terms to both sides of the deal.


3.3.1      Cash flow terms

DeMarzo, Kremer, and Skrzypacz (2005) is the classic paper that generalizes the analysis
of Hansen (1985) to auctions with bids that may include conditional cash flow terms. This
encapsulates collar offers, contingent value rights, and earnouts, but not other conditional
terms mentioned above. Suppose that the target can commit to a set of securities S(θ, vi )
admissible for bidding. Payoffs of securities in such a set are ranked by index θ and depend
on the acquirer’s value. E.g., call options have payoffs S(θ, vi ) = max{vi − θ, 0} that are
ordered by strike price θ; they approximate CVR and earnouts. Generalizing Hansen (1985),
upon learning the unbiased private signal si an acquirer only knows the distribution of value
 32
      A classic example is the acquisition of Paramount by Viacom in 1994.



                                                    28
vi . In a second-price auction it therefore offers a security that equates its net expected value
improvement E[vi ] − c = si − c with expected payment E[S(θ(s), vi (s))|s = si ].
       Some sets of admissible securities can be ranked by their steepness.33 E.g., a set of call
options on the combined company’s value ranked by their strike price is steeper than the
set of stock offers ranked by the fraction of the combined company, which in turn is steeper
than the set of cash offers. The key result is that the steeper the set of admissible securities,
the higher is the target’s expected revenue: steeper securities reinforce the link between the
second-highest bid and the winner’s signal/expected value in the payment and allow the
target to extract more rents. This result extends to first-price auctions.34 In turn, targets
prefer to restrict acquirers to bids in call options, while acquirers clearly prefer cash bids.
       In most M&A deals, the target is in fact unable to commit to a set of admissible
securities. Acquirers can bid in any security they like, which poses a complicated signaling
problem for the target. DeMarzo, Kremer, and Skrzypacz (2005) show that in such informal
auctions, bids will always be in cash if off-equilibrium beliefs are restricted to satisfy the D1
refinement.35 If acquirers are cash-constrained, they will instead submit debt offers, such
that a higher signal is associated with a higher face value.
       Che and Kim (2010) assume that investment costs c(si ) are not constant but instead
increasing in acquirer’s signal si . For example, a better plan to restructure a target involves
more investment. If c(si ) grows sufficiently quickly and the set of admissible securities is
sufficiently steep (e.g., stock offers as in Hansen, 1985), acquirers’ willingness to bid declines
in their signal/expected value, and the auction exhibits adverse selection. In turn, the logic
of DeMarzo, Kremer, and Skrzypacz (2005) reverses, and target’s expected revenue from
restricting acquirers to bid in steep securities is lower than its expected revenue from a
cash auction. Any desire of the target to restrict acquirers in their bids should therefore
be exercised with caution, keeping both dimensions of acquirers’ value-creating strategies
(synergies and costs of implementing them) in mind.
  33
     Loosely, steepness captures payoff sensitivity of securities in a set to acquirers’ values.
  34
     While the second-price auction is preferred when admissible securities are concave (e.g., debt-like offers
ordered by their face value), the first-price auction is preferred when these securities are convex (e.g., call
options). However, numerical differences in expected target revenue across auction formats are very small
compared to differences across admissible sets.
  35
     See, e.g., Cho and Kreps (1987); Cho and Sobel (1990).



                                                      29
   Gorbenko and Malenko (2011) study targets that compete for acquirers’ attention, such
that their incentives to restrict bids to steep securities diminish. In large markets with lots
of companies for sale, targets ask buyers to offer cash. Yuan (2024) shows that results of
DeMarzo, Kremer, and Skrzypacz (2005) on informal auctions can also be overturned if
acquirers have common values. Fearing the target’s selection among various security offers
and the associated winner’s curse, acquirers offer call options – even if the target is unable
to force them to bid steep securities – leaving to themselves a flat debt-like payoff that
mitigates the winner’s curse concern.
   In a very different type of model, Chatterjee and Yan (2008) focus specifically on con-
tingent value rights. They show that CVR are used by high-quality acquirers to separate
themselves from low-quality acquirers (who bid stock of the combined company), especially
if the degree of asymmetric information about quality is high. In turn, there are positive
(negative) acquirer’s abnormal announcement returns following offers that include CVR
(all-stock offers). These results are supported by empirical tests. Moving from auctions to
negotiations with contingent deal terms, Chaves and Varas (2022) consider a continuous-
time model of bargaining in securities and apply it to M&A under financial constraints.


3.3.2   Closing conditions and other deal terms

Daley, Geelen, and Green (2024) analyze offers that convert into a deal conditional on the
outcome of continued due diligence process. Acquirers bid for the target in an auction;
the winner then has the right to engage in due diligence which is modeled as a stopping
problem in continuous time. The winner faces delay costs and continues learning about
the target until either enough bad information arrives to withdraw its offer or enough good
information arrives to execute the deal at the price determined in the auction.
   The higher is the winning price, the more due diligence is done to warrant deal execution;
it comes with longer delays and a higher probability of offer withdrawal. This leads to
target’s revenue that is hump-shaped in the bid, prompting strong acquirers to limit their
bids to improve the probability of deal execution and be selected by the target. High speed
of learning (e.g., when due diligence shifts to a virtual data room) makes acquirers compete
harder and increases the threshold for good news that triggers deal execution, lowering the


                                              30
likelihood of this event. Winners tend to conduct too much due diligence relative to the
socially optimal level, because the winning price is above the target’s reservation value; this
triggers inefficient delays and offer withdrawals.
      Povel and Singh (2010) study stapled finance: the option granted by the target’s invest-
ment bank at the start of a sale process to an eventual winner to take on a non-recourse
loan and complete the deal. Even in the absence of financing constraints, stapled finance
is more useful to weak acquirers because it acts as a valuable subsidy. In turn, the auction
among acquirers becomes more competitive. This comes at the cost of allocative efficiency:
the highest-value acquirer does not necessarily win. Moreover, a fraction of incremental
target’s revenue generated by stapled finance goes to the investment bank to compensate it
for expected loss given default on the loan. However, as long as stapled finance is accepted
with a positive probability, it benefits the target on the net. This result complements De-
Marzo, Kremer, and Skrzypacz (2005) in the sense that even with cash bids, it is possible
to attach conditional financing terms to the deal to extract more revenue from acquirers.
Another paper that studies how acquirers finance their cash bids is Vladimirov (2015).
      Betton, Eckbo, and Thorburn (2009) analyze termination fees paid to the initial winner
by a rival who discovers the target later and bids high enough to have the initial merger
agreement canceled. The post-initial agreement contest is modeled as an English auction.
In expectation of termination fee t in the event of winning, the rival lowers its bid to
bE                                                          E
 2 = v2 − t. In turn, the initial acquirer also bids up to b1 = v1 − t: dropping at this

bid awards it with t, which is above the expected profit from continuing. As a result of
this underbidding, the target loses revenue. Betton, Eckbo, and Thorburn (2009) also show
that a termination fee can limit the extent of overbidding by the initial bidder who owns a
toehold36 in the target.
      Chen, Mahmudi, Virani, and Zhao (2022) study termination provisions in a dynamic
model, in which the value of the target to a single acquirer v1 and its standalone value v0
change over time. Termination provisions create value if triggered when v1 < v0 , but can
be costly otherwise. The model advocates for deal-specific provisions and associates their
presence with higher combined abnormal announcement returns.
 36
      A fraction of the target’s shares bought at prices that do not fully incorporate the probability of a deal.



                                                       31
3.4     Market misvaluation
Shleifer and Vishny (2003) as well as Rhodes-Kropf and Viswanathan (2004) study the
impact of stock market misvaluation of targets and acquirers on M&A. Both papers assume
that decision makers in merging firms are fully rational but the stock market is not. I focus
on Rhodes-Kropf and Viswanathan (2004) because they model various possible sources
of market misvaluation separately and also analyze an English auction among potential
acquirers, which fits into this section methodologically. Because firms are unable to perfectly
filter out sources of market misvaluation (e.g., firm-specific or market-wide), in overvalued
markets targets are more likely to overestimate synergies following a strong offer by an
overvalued acquirer, or when they themselves are relatively undervalued. These predictions
are shared with Shleifer and Vishny (2003). Multiple acquirers competing against each
other provide the target with more information about synergies; high rival bids lower the
target’s estimated synergies from any given bidder and make a deal less likely. Furthermore,
there are more deals completed in stock in overvalued markets than in undervalued markets,
and such deals are associated with lower acquirer’s merger announcement returns.


3.5     Tender offers vs mergers and the M&A market evolution
Multiple factors can lead to a deal conducted via a tender offer versus a friendly merger.
Evolving laws and regulations have certainly made hostile takeovers more difficult since the
1990s. The natural evolution and expansion of the market for corporate control that led
to specialization of control-oriented investors into activist investors and serial acquirers has
likely also been a critical factor. Burkart, Lee, and Voss (2025) start with the asymmetric
information model of Shleifer and Vishny (1986) reviewed in section 2.3, but allow informed
large shareholders to choose between acquiring a target or forcing it to merge with an outside
buyer (e.g., a private equity firm) on friendly terms.37 The paper is a great example of how
different literatures that have had little overlap so far can be merged to help understand
  37
     See also Burkart and Lee (2022) who compare tender offers and regular shareholder activism from the
perspective of a control investor. Corum and Levit (2019) study the relative advantage of activist investors
over potential acquirers in pressuring boards to sell their companies, stemming from their lack of a conflict
of interest with other shareholders. This aligns with the empirical evidence that most proxy fights to replace
parts of the resisting board are initiated by activist shareholders.


                                                     32
the market for corporate control better.
     Recall that the interaction of asymmetric information and the free-riding problem in
Shleifer and Vishny (1986) leads to inefficiencies whereby sufficiently weak control-oriented
investors with a toehold do not initiate a tender offer. An additional choice to sell the target
to a third party eliminates this inefficiency: a weak control investor optimally prefers to act
as an activist and negotiate a friendly sale. Moreover, this option also becomes preferable
for intermediate-quality control investors, who would have otherwise initiated a hostile
offer. In an extension, Burkart, Lee, and Voss (2025) consider competition, via a second
price auction, among outside buyers who have private values for the target. Shareholder
activism is more likely in the presence of competition; moreover, friendly sales lead to, on
average, higher offer prices and returns compared to tender offers.
     Of course, at some point control investors choose to specialize: to become either an
activist investor or outside buyer with the skill to restructure underperforming companies.
Burkart, Lee, and Voss (2025) show, via comparative statics, that if there are few control
investors or, alternatively, such investors have little capital then most of them prefer to
be buyers. Early stages of development of the market for corporate control are therefore
described well by Shleifer and Vishny (1986). In a developing market, new control investors
end up on both sides of the deal, leading to some shareholder activism and friendly deals
for some targets. In a fully developed market, there are already many control investors on
the sell side, so new control investors, again, prefer to be buyers. Moreover, shareholder
activism is plentiful and efficiency of the market for corporate control is maximized.
     A limitation of the model is that the dynamic evolution of the market for corporate
control, as well as control investors’ decisions, are studied in a static model via comparative
statics. The next section focuses on the dynamics of deal making.



4.      Initiation of deals and asset prices
Dynamic models of M&A reviewed in sections 4.1–4.6 examine decisions of targets and
acquirers to initiate a deal as a real option. I focus my discussion on questions of timing,
method of payment, and asset pricing implications of mergers versus takeovers/tender offers


                                              33
(keeping in mind that, for technical reasons, models of real options omit individual share-
holder incentives reviewed in section 2). Section 4.7 outlines one potential path forward for
this promising literature.
   Most dynamic M&A models are cast in continuous time. One advantage is that this
often yields closed-form solutions. Another advantage is that these models integrate well
with much of the asset pricing theory that is also cast in continuous time, permitting to
study stock price dynamics of the target and acquirers before, around, and after the deal.
The disadvantage is that typically, maintaining closed-form solutions requires increasingly
stringent assumptions as the model is enriched with more realistic features, e.g., the intro-
duction of a realistic industry-level competition among involved parties.
   Yet another key advantage of dynamic models of M&A is that following a firm through
time can help refine and enrich empirical predictions of static models. For example, models
in section 3 offer many explanations for low acquirer returns in stock deals. Models of market
misvaluation show that deals in stock are frequent in overvalued markets by relatively
overvalued acquirers, implying that deal frequency and terms can change with economic
and market conditions. Models that study acquirers’ financial constraints (including those
covered in this section) show that deals in stock occur when acquirers are either unable
or unwilling to commit cash to the deal, implying that deal frequency and terms can also
change with acquirer and target characteristics, including level and speed of accumulation
of cash. Some models of M&A auctions show that deals in stock may occur if the target has
commitment power to force acquirers to bid in securities, implying that deal frequency and
terms may further be impacted by how unique and desirable the target is, which in turn
can depend on target industry structure and on trends in technology/asset reallocation.
Most of these predictions are derived from static models, but they are inherently dynamic.
Dynamic models of M&A can help verify these and derive multiple other timing- and asset
pricing-related predictions within a single model that could then be jointly tested.


4.1    Deals driven by economies of scale
Lambrecht (2004) is the classic paper that studies the timing of M&A driven by product
markets and economies of scale. I consider a simplified version of this model. Two firms in

                                             34
the industry are interested in a potential business combination. They can either achieve it
via a merger or a takeover of one company (company 0) by another (company 1). Firms
are price takers, and their cash flows are driven by price of their output pt , which follows a
Geometric Brownian motion:
                                    dpt = µpt dt + σpt dBt ,                              (15)

where r is the risk-free rate such that the growth rate is µ < r, and the volatility is σ > 0.
Firms’ cash flows are
                                        xi (pt ) = qi pγt ,                               (16)

where γ > 1 means an increasing rate of growth of cash flows with output price pt . qi is
constant production of company i. This functional form can be justified with, e.g., a Cobb-
Douglas production function with fixed capital and variable labor. In this case, qi = kiθ
depends on a company’s capital ki . Of particular interest is the case of increasing returns
to scale θ > 1. Standalone values of two companies are

                                                     qi pγt
                                      vi (pt ) =            ,                             (17)
                                                   r − g(γ)

where g(γ) = 12 σ 2 γ(γ − 1) + µγ satisfies g(γ) < r, or alternatively γ < β where β is the
positive root of the characteristic equation

                                 1 2
                                   σ x(x − 1) + µx − r = 0.                               (18)
                                 2

   The value of a combined company is

                                                  qm pγt
                                     vm (pt ) =          ,                                (19)
                                                r − g(γ)
             P
where qm >     qi , ensuring a positive surplus from a business combination. For example,
this condition holds if production of the combined firm qm = ( ki )θ depends on the
                                                                   P

combined capital and θ > 1. Thus, synergies are motivated by economies of scale.
   The cost of a business combination for company i is ci . It includes direct costs of
integration as well as fees paid to lawyers and financial advisors. Finally, companies and


                                               35
their investors have full information about each other.
   Using standard stochastic calculus, the socially optimal merger should occur when pt
reaches the upper threshold p̄, at which, given risks the companies face, synergies grow
sufficiently large relative to integration costs:
                                                                 β
                                                                 pt
                       (vm (p̄) − v0 (p̄) − v1 (p̄) − c0 − c1 )      → max .                    (20)
                                                                 p̄     p̄


The first part of the maximand is the surplus conditional on reaching the merger threshold;
the second part is the value of a contingent claim that pays $1 upon reaching this threshold.
Alternatively, this value can be interpreted as a discount factor that brings the conditional
surplus value to time zero. The socially optimal merger threshold is

                                                                      γ1
                                         β X r − g(γ)
                                   p̄ =     ci     P                         .                  (21)
                                        β−γ    qm − qi

   Now, consider a stock swap merger, in which each company gets a fraction of the com-
bined company’s shares. Firms get together and first decide on the merger timing to
maximize the total surplus; second, they decide how to split it. This bilateral bargain-
ing is assumed frictionless; from Coase (1960) it follows that the socially efficient surplus
and merger threshold p̄ are achieveable; moreover, in this model the bargaining outcome is
renegotiation-proof. As such, each company solves
                                                            β
                                                            pt
                             (αi vm (p̄) − vi (p̄) − ci ))      → max,                          (22)
                                                            p̄     αi

        P
where       αi = 1. As a result,

                                            ci (qm − qj ) + cj qi
                                     αi =        P                .                             (23)
                                                    cl · q m
                                                                                 P
Mergers are pro-cyclical as they occur for sufficiently high pt . When qm =          qi (e.g., θ = 1,
or returns to scale are constant), there is no surplus from the merger, and hence each
                                                           P
company’s ownership αi is proportional to qi . When qm >      qi , a company’s ownership
grows in its relative size qqji , as it contributes more to the surplus. Finally, an increase in


                                                  36
costs of a merger makes it harder to persuade a company to merge at a socially optimal
level, unless its ownership in the combined firm goes up.
       Consider now a takeover, in which company 1 (the acquirer) acquires company 0 (the
target). Lambrecht (2004) thinks of takeovers differently from the literature in section 2.
In particular, shareholder conflicts are abstracted away from, and neither the desire for a
speedy deal nor the acquirer’s advantageous financial position – common reasons to go for
a tender offer – are modeled. Instead, the target is assumed to be able to credibly commit
to a fraction of the combined company it wants and the acquirer then decides on the timing
of deal initiation.38 Applying the backward induction, the acquirer solves
                                                                β
                                                                pt
                                 (α1 vm (p̄) − v1 (p̄) − c1 ))      → max,                              (24)
                                                                p̄     p̄


while, at time zero, the target solves
                                                                                 β
                                                                           pt
                    ((1 − α1 )vm (p̄(α1 )) − v0 (p̄(α1 )) − c0 ))                      → max .          (25)
                                                                        p̄(α1 )                   α1


The optimal takeover threshold is

                                 "          2                 !                      # γ1
                                        β               β            r − g(γ)
                         p̄1 =                    c1 +     c0             P                   .         (26)
                                       β−γ             β−γ          qm − qi

Takeovers are also pro-cyclical. Because the target makes the first move, it is able to capture
a higher fraction of the surplus compared to a merger. The takeover premium offered to the
target over and above its standalone value increases in product market uncertainty σ and
acquirer-to-target size ratio qq01 . However, the shift in the surplus split leads to deals that
are initiated inefficiently late and are less likely to materialize than mergers: p̄1 > p̄. Even
though takeovers generate a larger total return upon initiation, the inefficiencies outlined
above make them less socially desirable than mergers.
  38
     This could, for example, be justified by a target manager-shareholder requiring a certain value in the
stock swap to not oppose the deal for unmodeled reasons, which it then cashes out. In principle, the target’s
ability to commit to a favorable split of the surplus would lower the threshold at which it is ready for a
friendly merger with the potential acquirer, possibly overturning some of the results. However, the paper
does not analyze the additional option of a merger in the model of a takeover.


                                                     37
   A natural question is whether one can additionally incorporate incentives to form a
business combination to maximize market power in a model of product market competition.
We defer the discussion of this version of Lambrecht (2004) until section 5.


4.2    Deals driven by inefficiencies
Synergies motivated by economies of scale drive many deals, but this motivation is certainly
not the only one. Morellec and Zhdanov (2005) present a model, in which synergies between
the two merging companies are driven by relative inefficiencies of the target. Consider the
setup of Lambrecht (2004) with four major differences. First, cash flows and standalone
values of the two companies are affected by two different but correlated Geometric Brownian
motion processes, pi,t :
                                                                          qi pi,t
                                xi (pi,t ) = qi pi,t ; vi (pi,t ) =               .                   (27)
                                                                        r − g(1)
Here, I keep the notation pi,t to denote per-unit-of-production cash flows, which can come
from companies’ profit margins. Using earlier definitions, γ = 1 means constant rate of
growth of cash flows with pi,t ; g(γ) = g(1) = µ; and θ = 1 means constant returns to
                                                                       P
scale, and hence no synergies associated with economies of scale: qm =   qi . Instead, the
second main difference from Lambrecht (2004) is that synergies depend on the degree of
underperformance of one firm (the target) relative to the other firm (the acquirer), captured
by the difference in their standalone values. Specifically,

                                        X                  X
                  vm (p0,t , p1,t ) =       vi (pi,t ) +        qi · s (ωv1 (p1,t ) − v0 (p0,t )) .   (28)


Synergies are driven by the publicly observable component s, while ω is a component of
synergies observable by deal participants but not by outside investors. Over time, outsiders
update their beliefs about ω until the deal is initiated, at which point they learn ω precisely.
As an example, if ω = 1 then synergies are positive when v1 (p1,t ) > v0 (p0,t ).
   The third main difference from Lambrecht (2004) is that the roles of the target and
acquirer in a merger are fixed: only company 1 can acquire company 0 when v1 (p1,t ) is
substantially higher than v0 (p0,t ), but not the other way around when the ranking of values
is reversed. Otherwise, deal initiation follows the Lambrecht (2004) model of mergers.

                                                           38
Fourth, there are no costs of forming a business combination: companies instead hold a
switch option, in which they exchange their standalone value affected by one stream of cash
flows for a share in the combined company affected by both imperfectly correlated streams.
   With these assumptions, the payoff of the option to acquire is linear in pi,t , so the
acquirer’s strategy depends on the ratio of cash flows (equivalently, of firm values) zt = pp1,t
                                                                                             0,t

crossing the upper threshold z̄. The drift and variance of the process for zt is µz = µ1 − µ0
and σz2 = σ12 − 2ρσ0 σ1 + σ02 . Similar to Lambrecht (2004), the acquirer solves
                                                            z βz
                                                              t
                           p1,t (α1 vm (z̄, 1) − q1 z̄))             → max,                 (29)
                                                             z̄         z̄


where βz is a positive root of equation (18) with µz and σz as parameters. The solution is
                                             P
                                    βz α1 (s qi − q0 )(r − g(1))
                            z̄1 =                   P            .                          (30)
                                  βz − 1 α1 (q1 + sω qi ) − q1

A similar problem for the target gives
                                                      P
                               βz (α1 q0 + (1 − α1 )s qi ) (r − g(1))
                       z̄0 =                              P           .                     (31)
                             βz − 1      (1 − α1 )(q1 + sω qi )

Using the same argument as in Lambrecht (2004), setting z̄1 = z̄0 achieves the social
optimum, and is the outcome of the merger game in a frictionless setting. This gives

                                             βz r − g(1)
                                     z̄ =                ;                                  (32)
                                           βz − 1     ω
                                              q1
                                   α1    =          .                                       (33)
                                           q1 + ωq2

The optimal merger threshold is decreasing in ω, which means that outside investors down-
grade their expectations about this component of synergies as zt reaches new heights; once
the deal occurs, ω is revealed through z̄ and the outsiders’ expectations are positively sub-
verted. This logic has implications for asset prices and abnormal returns around initiation
of the deal. High σ, low ρ, high µ1 , and low µ0 all increase both companies’ abnormal
returns, because they all increase the value of the option to wait and therefore decrease
the speed at which the outsiders downgrade their expectations about ω and increase their


                                                  39
surprise about synergies when the deal is initiated.
   The paper also models competition between two acquirers via an English auction. Per-
unit-of-production cash flows for acquirers are assumed the same, but they can differ in their
production qi , i = 1, 2. Acquirers cannot accept a share of the combined company below
         v (p   )
αiE = vm (pi 0,ti,t,pi,t ) , their stopping point in the auction. There are two possible cases: first,
the losing acquirer (say, company 2) is weak, i.e., α2E ≤ α1 from the single-acquirer model
considered above. Then, competition is irrelevant for the winner. Second, the losing acquirer
is strong. Then, the winner must accept a share lower than α1 . Morellec and Zhdanov (2005)
again use the argument that the deal occurs when z̄1E = z̄0 to show that competition speeds
up the takeover process: z̄ E < z̄. In the two-bidder case, however, conditions of Coase
(1960) are no longer satisfied, so one has to wonder which implicit assumptions about the
bargaining process among three companies can implement this solution.
   The model with competition can generate negative announcement returns for acquirers
around deal initiation; signs and magnitudes of these are consistent with empirical evidence.
Outside investors now learn about synergies ω1 and ω2 not only from initiation but from
the post-auction split of the combined value. Ignoring the difference in qi , if the bidders’
synergies are sufficiently close and competition is fierce, the outsiders learn that no surplus
has been retained by the winner, whereas before the deal the expectation was that of a
positive surplus retention. This leads to negative announcement returns. More asymmetric
outsiders’ beliefs lead to positive announcement returns. However, the model cannot explain
negative announcement returns in single-bidder stock swap deals, which are quite common.


4.3     Asset pricing implications
Hackbarth and Morellec (2008) focus on stock market implications of mergers. They con-
sider a model similar to Morellec and Zhdanov (2005), in which synergies in (28) are instead
q0 (s(v1 (p1,t ) − v0 (p0,t )) − ωv0 (p0,t )). Fundamentally, the difference is that synergies driven
by inefficiencies of the target scale with the target’s size only. Additionally, to derive asset
pricing implications they assume that a riskless bond and two assets with market betas βi
that are perfectly correlated with corresponding pi,t are traded in financial markets. Betas of
two firms are additionally affected by the value of the option to merge. An extension incor-

                                                 40
porates follow-up options to expand operations or to divest some assets. Another extension
adds asymmetric information and competition as in Morellec and Zhdanov (2015).
      Hackbarth and Morellec (2008) show that betas of acquirers increase (decrease) prior to
a deal if betas of core assets satisfy β1 > β0 (β1 < β0 ). These patterns are stronger in the
presence of follow-up options and in the absence of competition. The acquirer’s beta then
decreases (increases) upon deal initiation. The decision to merge is a switch option that
replaces one stream of cash flows in the standalone acquirer with two streams of cash flows
in the combined firm. Therefore, unlike with a standard call option, the beta only drops
upon exercise of the option if the target is relatively safe. Similarly, the relationship between
β1 and β0 is the key driver of the impact on the acquirer’s beta of follow-up decisions to
expand operations (which is similar to but not quite a call option) and to divest assets
(which is similar to but not quite a put option). Finally, while competition changes deal
timing, in this model it does not affect the change in betas upon deal initiation. Empirical
tests show that model predictions are broadly consistent with the data. The paper therefore
demonstrates the importance of a multi-factor model that captures heterogeneity of business
risk to understand the dynamics of asset prices around mergers.


4.4       Financial constraints and deal terms
Gorbenko and Malenko (2018) study the impact of potentially asymmetric acquirers’ finan-
cial constraints on their decision to initiate deals and to offer target shareholders cash, a
stock swap, or a combination of the two. The paper merges the literature on M&A as real
options with the literature on auctions in which bids can be made in securities.
      Consider the setup of Lambrecht (2004) in which roles of the target and acquirers are
fixed, and cash flows of all companies are affected by the same Geometric Brownian motion
pt . A constant rate of growth of cash flows with pt is captured by γ = 1, and economies of
scale are captured by qm = q0 + q + ωi > q0 + qi , where qi = q for i = 1, 2.
      Before initiation, acquirer i draws private signal si from a distribution on interval [s, s] ⊂
[0, 1], which informs about the probability of synergies ωi being high: ωi ∈ {ωl , ωh } and
Pr[ωi = ωh |si ] = si .39 After the deal is initiated but before bidding, bidders privately learn
 39
      In an extension, Gorbenko and Malenko (2018) also consider the case of the continuous distribution of


                                                     41
ωi via due diligence, so that the asymmetry of information remains.
   The cost of participating in the auction for an acquirer is ci = c. This cost captures due
diligence, bid preparation, etc. At time zero, each acquirer decides when to approach the
target with an offer, potentially attracting competition.40 If cost c is small enough, both
acquirers want to compete in the auction (for brevity, I will only focus on this case); if c
is large, a sufficiently weak rival does not compete, and the initiating acquirer negotiates a
deal with the target. The auction is an extended version of an English auction of Milgrom
and Weber (1982) and Hansen (1985), in which offers can be in combinations of cash and
stock. Beyond strategic reasons to choose a security analyzed in, e.g., DeMarzo, Kremer
and Skrzypacz (2005), acquirers are financially constrained: costs of raising b dollars in cash
are commonly known to be λi = λ > 0 and do not affect synergies. The more interesting
but complicated case of asymmetric costs of cash is briefly discussed later.
   As in informal auctions of DeMarzo, Kremer and Skrzypacz (2005), bidding in various
combinations of cash and stock is a signaling game, and the target must infer the value of
security offers. A unique equilibrium in the auction is achieved if off-equilibrium beliefs by
the target satisfy the Intuitive Criterion (Cho and Kreps, 1987).
   As in the standard English auction, acquirers compete up to their maximum willingness
to bid vm (pt , ωi ) − vi (pt ). If synergies are equal (either both high or low), the entire surplus
is extracted by the target anyway, so acquirers bid in stock because raising cash entails
costs. However, recall from Hansen (1985) in section 3.2 that if there is a gap ωh − ωl
between the winner’s and loser’s synergies, a bid in stock also entails a cost. The winner
trades off costs of cash and stock bids by making a mixed offer: fraction γ vm (pvmt ,ω(plt)−v i (pt )
                                                                                            ,ωh )
                                                                                                       of
the combined firm and (1 − γ) (vm (pt , ωl ) − vi (pt )) in cash, where γ increases in costs of
cash λ and decreases in parameters that magnify costs of stock bids, e.g., gap ωh − ωl .
   The payoff of the strong acquirer winning against the weak rival is ψ(vh , vl ) = ωh − ωl −
(λ − 1)(1 − γ) (vm (pt , ωl ) − vi (pt )). The expected payoff of the acquirer who considers deal
initiation is Eψ(si ) = si (1 − E[sj |sj ≤ s1 ])ψ(ωh , ωl ). When Eψ(si ) is strictly increasing in
si (a high signal improves the expected payoff), a decreasing upper threshold p̄(si ) at which
synergies.
  40
     While the target is not allowed to make its own move, the equilibrium considered in Gorbenko and
Malenko (2018) is unaffected in the presence of the active target.


                                                   42
the deal is initiated can be derived using stochastic calculus, and it takes familiar form:

                                                   β c(r − g(1))
                                     p̄(si ) =                   ,                              (34)
                                                 β − 1 Eψ(si )

where β is the positive root of equation (18). The threshold is increasing in σ, c, and
decreasing in µ. More interestingly, p̄ is increasing in q0 (a large target requires more cash
in the optimal mixed offer, which makes it costlier) and λ (high cost of cash makes it harder
for the acquirer to signal its high synergy to the target to avoid undervaluation of the stock
component of the bid). Empirical evidence (e.g., Harford, 1999; Faccio and Masulis, 2005)
supports the theory link between financial constraints and propensity of deal making.
       Perhaps surprisingly, if acquirers have asymmetric costs of cash then an acquirer initiates
the deal later when its rival becomes more constrained. Expecting such a rival to delay its
initiation more, all else the same the acquirer perceives it to have a stronger signal si and
higher expected synergies than an unconstrained rival. In turn, the acquirer expects a stiffer
competition and a lower payoff, and itself initiates the contest later. This result requires a
dynamic model of deal timing and asymmetric information, and goes against the naive view
that a more constrained rival is weaker, which would accelerate the acquirer’s initiation:
because bids in stock are allowed, the rival’s willingness to bid is, in fact, unchanged.
       Among other implications, the payoff of the winner is higher in deals involving cash
than in pure stock swap deals (in which the payoff is negative, implying negative acquirer’s
announcement returns around stock swaps41 ); deals involving cash have higher synergies
than stock swap deals; the expected size of deals involving cash is smaller than that of stock
swap deals. These implications are broadly consistent with empirical evidence.


4.5       Leverage and deals driven by financial distress
Morellec and Zhdanov (2008) study the link between companies’ choices of leverage and
timing and outcomes of deals. Two acquirers compete for the target, and their synergies
are driven by economies of scale. The target initiates the deal. At time zero all three firms
optimize their leverage trading off tax benefits and bankruptcy costs as in, e.g., Leland
  41
   Another interesting model that justifies negative acquirers’ announcement returns is Jovanovic and
Braguinsky (2004).


                                                    43
(1994). If any of the companies defaults before the deal, antitrust regulations prohibit a
combination of two remaining companies.
       If the target’s leverage is not very high, there exists an asymmetric equilibrium (and
no symmetric equilibria), in which the eventual winning acquirer levers up much less than
the losing acquirer, substituting tax benefits for synergies. This equilibrium survives if the
winner can re-lever post-deal. If the target’s leverage is extremely high then the asymmetry
flips, and the eventual winning acquirer levers up substantially, as its shareholders face a
classic asset substitution problem, expropriate their debtholders, and bail out the target’s
claimholders to win the contest.42 Finally, when acquirers strongly agree to disagree about
rivals’ synergies, asymmetric equilibria disappear. Here, it becomes harder to predict the
outcome of the deal, so the strategic role of low debt to facilitate deals disappears, and
acquirers classically trade off tax benefits and bankruptcy costs in a symmetric equilibrium.
       Eisdorfer, Morellec, and Zhdanov (2023) consider takeovers of financially distressed
targets for purposes of financial and operational restructuring. They study the impact of
a potential takeover and various anti-takeover laws on target’ stock returns and betas, and
bond credit spreads. The model is similar to Morellec and Zhdanov (2005); unlike them,
to zoom in on distressed deals Eisdorfer, Morellec, and Zhdanov (2023) assume that the
acquirer’s value for the target vm is constant, and it is pursuing an all-cash deal.43
       The levered target’s standalone value is
                                                                               !η !
                                                          q0 pB
                                                                         
                                       q0 pt     c0                    c0   pt
                v0 (pt ) = (1 − τ )           − −                  −
                                     r − g(1)    r      r − g(1)       r    pB
                                           !η                                  !η
                             c0 c0 p t                            q 0 pB    pt
                           + −                + (1 − b)(1 − τ )                   ,                      (35)
                              r     r pB                        r − g(1) pB

where the first line is the value of levered equity and the second line is the value of levered
debt. Here, τ is the corporate income tax rate; c0 is interest paid to target debtholders; b
is percentage value loss given bankruptcy; and η is the negative root of the characteristic
  42
     In practice a highly levered firm’s debt covenants will sometimes prohibit buying highly levered targets.
However, deals described by the model do occur: e.g., see the acquisition of Solarcity by Tesla in 2016.
  43
     Stock swap deals are uncommon in distressed takeovers, because target debtholders often prefer to be
bought out, and acquirer’s shareholders do not want to be diluted.



                                                     44
equation (18): bankruptcy occurs when the target’s cash flows are sufficiently low. While
shareholder conflicts are not explicitly modeled, surplus vm − v0 (pt ) is assumed to split in
proportion of ϕe , ϕd , and 1 − ϕe − ϕd between target shareholders, debtholders, and the
acquirer. Upon initiation of the deal, the takeover happens with exogenous probability λ.
       Unlike in the earlier literature, if vm ≥ c0 /r then the deal happens when the target’s cash
flows are sufficiently low, but not too low for it to go bankrupt44 : the acquirer maximizes
                                                    
                                                    pt
                                     (vm − v0 (p))     → max,                                        (36)
                                                    p     p


and the solution is
                                                         
                   η                      vm    τ c0               η            c0
               p=     (r − g(1))             −                >       (r − g(1)) = pB .              (37)
                  η−1                    1−τ   1−τ r              η−1           r

Target shareholders (debtholders) get a boost in the form of fraction λϕe (λϕd ) of the
takeover option value held by the acquirer, which adjusts their market valuations and
alters beta dynamics. Unlike Morellec and Zhdanov (2005), the acquirer’s valuation vm is
constant, so the takeover option is a put option. Hence, the closer the target gets to the
takeover threshold, the lower its equity beta. The decrease in takeover probability λ brought
about by anti-takeover laws increases the equity beta, as the value of the option to acquire
falls; the magnitude of the increase is large for targets close to bankruptcy or when target
shareholders’ bargaining power ϕe is strong. Moreover, anti-takeover laws increase credit
spreads on corporate debt, especially if target debtholders’ bargaining power ϕd is strong.
Empirical evidence provided in the paper is consistent with predictions. The implication is
that anti-takeover laws need to be implemented carefully, keeping in mind the multitude of
reasons for why firms form a business combination.


4.6       Private and common values
Acquisitions by strategic bidders are more likely to be bidder-initiated, while acquisitions
  44
    Consistent with the logic of Morellec and Zhdanov (2005), the takeover occurs when the ratio of bidder
valuation for the target to its standalone value is sufficiently high.




                                                   45
by private equity firms are more likely to be target-initiated.45 Gorbenko and Malenko
(2024) explain this pattern by modeling contests among strategic (financial) acquirers as
auctions in which bidders’ valuations have a substantial private (common) component.46
Deals can be initiated by both sides: acquirers choose when to approach the target, and
the target chooses when to put itself up for sale.
       In an acquirer-initiated auction, ex-ante identical acquirers become asymmetric post-
initiation: all parties infer the high signal of the initiating bidder about its synergies.
Rivals use this information to update their bidding strategy and potentially revalue their
own synergies, becoming more competitive. In auctions with a substantial common value
component, these effects discourage acquirers from initiating the contest, and all contests
are initiated by the target, if at all. In auctions with a substantial private value component,
rivals’ synergies are not much revalued, which is insufficient to discourage acquirers from
initiating. In turn, both target- and acquirer-initiated contests can occur. These results
are robust to the choice of the auction format (e.g., first-price or English). The model also
points to a positive role of shareholder activists, investment banks as intermediaries, and
toeholds in facilitating valuable acquirer-initiated common-value deals.


4.7       Initiation of takeovers vs mergers and shareholder conflicts
It is clear that shareholder conflicts in tender offers have a first-order impact on the split of
the surplus between the target and acquirer. Similarly, the lack of shareholder support in
friendly mergers may prompt an acquirer to give up some of its surplus to succeed. Con-
tested merger discussions also tend to be slower, favoring a more patient party. Relatedly,
unlike in hostile takeovers, targets of mergers do not demand immediate financing guaran-
tees from acquirers, substantially relaxing their costs of cash. In turn, ownership structure,
length of the process, and associated process-specific costs should be critical for deal timing
  45
    See, e.g., Fidrmuc, Roosenboom, Paap, and Teunissen (2012).
  46
    Knowledge of strategic acquirers’ synergies (related to bidder-specific assets) with the target is unlikely
to change their rivals’ valuations. However, knowledge of financial acquirers’ synergies (value added from
restructuring an underperforming target) can be very useful for rivals trying to re-assess their own synergies
from employing similar strategies.




                                                      46
and type.47 Hence, one possible direction in which dynamic models of M&A could evolve is
to integrate the three literatures reviewed in sections 2–4 for a coherent and comprehensive
analysis of competing M&A choices.
       To my knowledge, Lukas, Pereira, and Rodrigues (2023) is the only paper that allows
acquirers to choose between a merger and takeover in the same model. Consider the Lam-
brecht (2004) model with γ = 1. Two companies first attempt a stock swap merger. If
it fails, there is an option for a takeover, which, unlike in Lambrecht (2004), is conducted
in cash: a pre-assigned acquirer commits to a takeover premium offered to a pre-assigned
target, while the target chooses the timing. The takeover generates more synergies than the
                                                                            P
merger, possibly because inefficient target management is ousted: qt ≥ qm > qi . Further,
company-level costs of completing a merger and tender offer, cm and ct , can differ.
       The takeover acts as a walkaway threat in merger negotiations. The negotiations out-
come is modeled as an asymmetric Nash bargaining solution with outside options (Muthoo,
1999). Despite this complication, the jointly chosen merger threshold is still the socially
optimal threshold, and fractions of the combined company retained by each firm increase
in their threat value. If qt = qm and ct = cm , a merger is naturally preferred to a takeover.
If qt is substantially higher than qm (the gap needs to be larger if the gap in costs ct and
cm is larger), companies abandon merger negotiations for a takeover. Takeovers are also
preferred if q0 is low or σ takes intermediate values (this non-linearity in the effect of σ is the
result of companies holding a sequence of options). Takeovers also result in higher combined
announcement returns than mergers. Empirical evidence supports these predictions.
       The analysis abstracts away from shareholder conflicts48 , does not endogenize roles of
target and acquirer in a takeover, and does not allow for a takeover attempt to precede
friendly talks (e.g., see the case of Elon Musk buying Twitter in 2022). However, this is a
good start to a difficult task of integrating competing M&A choices into a dynamic model.
  47
     Gorbenko and Malenko (2018) study the impact of financial constraints on merger timing, but they do
not allow acquirers to initiate tender offers.
  48
     Lukas, Pereira, and Rodrigues (2023) use the term tender offers for takeovers, but do not incorporate
salient features of tender offers reviewed in section 2.




                                                   47
5.      Deals in industry equilibrium
Perhaps more than any other corporate choice, M&A affect the competitive landscape and
innovation in involved parties’ industries, and hence often deservedly attract attention of
antitrust authorities. It is therefore important to understand the link between industry-level
competition and features of M&A deals discussed so far, including their dynamic nature.
     Static models of industry-level competition and M&A have been studied in the indus-
trial organization literature for many years; some of this literature is discussed below. The
introduction of dynamics complicates things: more often than not, workhorse models re-
viewed in section 4 cease yielding closed form solutions and require numerical analysis. The
flip side of not chasing closed form solutions is that models can be made realistic and better
yield themselves to calibration/estimation.
     That the literature would benefit from more realistic and, by extension, more compli-
cated models that use familiar building blocks is certainly not an ironclad fact but the
author’s opinion. In his like-minded article on the state of theoretical corporate finance,
Spiegel (2023) writes, “Corporate finance has turned into a field where researchers produce
what seem like a constant flow of disconnected papers. Theories are never confirmed or
refuted. At best, empirical papers confirm models without a realistic alternative to refute...
If corporate finance is going to progress, we need papers with testable dynamic oligopoly
models.” Realistic models that are comparable to each other and other literatures (e.g., as-
set pricing and real options), and can therefore be directly tested against each other would,
in my opinion, certainly make the back-and-forth between theory and empirical work in the
field on M&A more productive.
     Section 5.1 reviews industry models in which decisions to merge are exogenous, while
section 5.2 examines models in which these decisions are optimally made by firms. Section
5.3 outlines one potential future for models of M&A and industry-level competition.


5.1     Exogenous mergers
Farrell and Shapiro (1990) is a classic industrial organization paper that analyzes the wel-
fare effects of a merger in a model of product market competition. Firms engage in static


                                              48
Cournot competition, and consumer demand and production costs satisfy standard restric-
tions. Two firms are assumed to merge; a static snapshot of the post-merger industry is
then compared to the initial snapshot. The paper derives necessary and sufficient conditions
for a merger to increase consumer surplus, and shows that mergers that decrease fixed but
not marginal production costs, as well as non-synergistic mergers never achieve this goal.
The paper also analyzes sufficient conditions for a merger to increase aggregate surplus and
shows that many sufficiently small output-reducing mergers, in particular in industries with
inelastic demands, benefit the rest of the industry more than they harm consumers.
   Spiegel and Tookes (2013) is the first continuous-time model that produces both qual-
itative and quantitative predictions about financial deal making, including mergers, in a
dynamic oligopoly. There are n firms, each investing ci,t ≥ 0, i = 1, ..., n in advertising,
R&D, etc. to gain market share. The return on investment is si . Each company’s market
share is eroded by rival investment, and retaining a larger share is more difficult (decreasing
returns to size), capturing the idea that companies’ products and consumers are sufficiently
different from each other to preclude monopolies. Formally, market shares evolve as
                                                      P        
                               ϕ (1 − mi )ci si − mi j̸=i cj sj
                         dmi =             P                      dt.                     (38)
                                                cj s j

Here, ϕ is consumer stickiness parameter; it is high in industries with fickle customers (e.g.,
fast food, but not manufacturing). Firms’ instantaneous cash flows are xi,t = egt (αi mi,t −
ci,t − fi ). Cash flows scale with exogenous industry growth g; fi ≥ 0 are fixed operating
costs. Companies choose ci to maximize the expected present value of cash flows discounted
at rate r, considering their impact on rivals.
   The paper characterizes steady state company values and investments, as well as con-
vergence to steady state. Values are linear in market share. They are higher for firms who
transform their market share into cash flows efficiently (high αi ), can convert investment
into new customers easily (high si ), and have less fickle customers (low ϕ). Equilibrium
investment ci is higher if customers are fickle (high ϕ) and if the present value of a customer
is high (low discount rate r). Higher αi and si only improve investment of stronger firms
(already high αi and si ), as they are better able to capture new market share.


                                              49
   The model can be extended to incorporate uncertainty. In this case,
                                         P        
                  ϕ (1 − mi )ci si − mi j̸=i cj sj         √ X √
            dmi =             P                      dt + σ mi      ρi,j mj dBi,j ,          (39)
                                   cj s j                      j̸=i


where B is the standard Brownian motion and ρi,j = 1 (+1) for i < j (i > j), capturing
that market share lost to a rival must increase rival’s share one-to-one. This leads to the
law of motion for company values that somewhat resembles the literature in section 4:
                                                      
               αi              ϕαi si z − (n − 1)             αi √ X √
        dvi =                                     − ϕmi dt +     σ mi      ρi,j mj dBi,j ,   (40)
              ϕ+r                     αi si z                ϕ+r      j̸=i


                 1
            P
where z =       αj s j
                         is competitive strength of the industry.
   In the static Cournot model with homogeneous firms, an exogenous increase in industry
size n makes all firms cut back on their investment. In Spiegel and Tookes (2013), weak and
average firms (low αi and si ) invest less because they are unable to retain their customers
against a new entrant, and in turn lose their market share. Strong firms invest more as
retaining their customers is easier, but in the end still lose some market share.
   These results have implications for mergers. Suppose two firms want to merge unexpect-
edly. In the absence of cash flow synergies (xm,t = xi,t + xj,t keeping market shares fixed)
any merger gains arise from more market power. Then, strong firms will not merge, while
weak firms benefit from combining. This is because a merger decreases industry size n but
leads to more competition for market share, which becomes fierce if a strong company is re-
moved via a merger. With cash flow synergies, even strong firms may merge. Interestingly,
a merger (e.g., between strong firms) can trigger a merger wave (e.g., between weak firms
that aggressively try to expand their market power as the set of strong rivals shrinks).
   Another benefit of a detailed model in Spiegel and Tookes (2013) is that it can be
calibrated to decompose rival’s merger announcement returns (which are marginally positive
in the data) into a strongly positive component due to a smaller industry size (ignoring
the strength of a newly combined company) and a strongly negative component due to a
stronger new competitor, who is more aggressive in its investment to gain market share. The
model also explains a substantial part of observable firm values despite not incorporating

                                                    50
news, accounting variable changes, etc.
   The framework of Spiegel and Tookes (2013) has much untapped potential and can be
used to analyze mergers driven by various motives as outlined in section 4. It is less clear if
endogenous mergers or takeovers can be easily incorporated.49 It also remains to be explored
how to analyze various deal structures, financing constraints, etc. Finally, modifications to
the framework are needed to study high-growth industries, which are home to some of the
most important deals in 2020s, and cross-industry acquisitions (vertical or conglomerate).


5.2     Endogenous merger decisions
The complexity of modeling endogenous mergers has limited much of the existing literature
to studies of a duopoly or a market with a continuum of firms. Consider, again, Lambrecht
(2004) reviewed in section 4.1. Instead of being price takers, let firms face demand function
p(q) = qpεt , where ε < 1 is the price eleasicity of demand. Then, a merger additionally
concentrates market power. Equations (16) and (17) still describe cash flows and standalone
values of the two companies; now, γ ≡ γ(ε) is a decreasing function of ε, and qi are more
complex functions of firms’ capital. Equation (19), however, becomes

                                                        Qm pγt
                                         Vm (pt ) =            ,                                    (41)
                                                      r − g(γ)

where, since a monopolist can do at least as well as two competing firms, Qm ≥ qm . The
                            P          P               P          P
shared surplus is Vm (pt ) − vi (pt ) − ci ≥ vm (pt ) − vi (pt ) − ci . Hence, market power
speeds both socially efficient and negotiated deals. Moreover, while high price elasticity of
demand ε decreases synergies (and hence the speed of surplus accumulation) by lowering γ
as pt grows, it magnifies monopolistic market power and, on the net, leads to faster mergers.
   An ideal extension of this version of the Lambrecht (2004) model should address how
companies find each other in the market and decide on a deal, and how it impacts other
firms in the industry, both in terms of their values and their own M&A decisions.
   Huang and Xie (2023) study within- and across-industry takeovers in a continuous-time
  49
     Intuitively, the value of options to merge would change with the competitive environment and other
merger activity, potentially triggering endogenous merger waves and interesting variation in firms’ stock
returns and betas.


                                                   51
search-and-matching model. There is a continuum of acquirers and targets (e.g., the entire
U.S. economy), whose role is exogenously fixed. Firms invest resources to search for a
counterparty faster; upon matching, either a deal is made or at least one of the firms is not
interested, so both continue searching. Companies’ profitability is driven by their industry-
specific knowledge and managerial talent. A deal allows involved firms to incorporate the
counterparty’s knowledge across all industries in which it is active. The acquirer also puts
its own manager in control of the combined firm.
       Companies with a high technology centrality are desirable, as they promise a high
expected surplus. Such companies spend more resources to search for a good deal. For the
same reason, acquirers (targets) with high (low) managerial talent also search more. Parties
with larger knowledge spillovers are more likely to merge. There results are supported by
empirical tests. While the model with a continuum of firms can approximate the entire
economy, it is less applicable to individual oligopolistic industries (e.g., healthcare). Another
useful extension can be to identify firm characteristics that make them serial acquirers.50
       Dimopoulos and Sacchetto (2017) offer a discrete-time search-and-matching model of
M&A driven by productivity gains and production cost cuts in a competitive equilibrium.51
Firms are additionally allowed to enter and exit the market. Under calibrated parameters,
the option to engage in merger activity enhances entry and slows down exit of unproductive
firms from the industry. On the net, this leads to an incremental increase in the average
industry productivity over and above productivity gains achieved in mergers themselves. A
policy maker who encourages entry but ignores the M&A market may expect an increase
in productivity; this may backfire, as stronger competition stifles productivity gains and
M&A activity. This illustrates the usefulness of detailed M&A models for public policies.


5.3       What next? The quest for a unified model
To answer some deep M&A questions, one must model competitive firm environments.
This section reviews several such frameworks, but it remains to be seen just how flexible
  50
     While not a fully-fledged search-and-matching model, here it is useful to mention Matsusaka (2001) as
a potential motivation to further study cross-industry acquisitions and divestitures by conglomerates.
  51
     Theoretical precursors of this model include Jovanovic and Rousseau (2002) and Rhodes-Kropf and
Robinson (2008).


                                                   52
they are at incorporating various realistic features of the M&A market. Continuous-time
frameworks can provide closed form solutions and speak to asset pricing and real option
researchers used to such models, but they tend to be inflexible. Discrete time frameworks,
popular in the industrial organization literature, are more flexible but can be difficult to
solve numerically52 and are more disconnected from other lines of research in finance. These
models may however appeal to the empirical audience, as a wider arsenal of tools to estimate
and analyze them has been developed; Wang (2025) reviews estimation of models in M&A.
       Useful building blocks for dynamic discrete-time modeling employed in the industrial
organization literature are reviewed in Asker and Nocke (2021), who focus on estimation of
dynamic games (including M&A) in a competitive equilibrium, and in Aguirregabiria et al.
(2021), who focus specifically on mergers and collusion but do not analyze firms’ financial
decisions. Igami and Uetake (2020) estimate the impact of mergers on innovation in the
hard disk industry; Uetake and Watanabe (2020) estimate a matching model of M&A in
the commercial bank industry to uncover the impact of entry regulation. Jeziorski (2022)
develops a framework to conduct a forward-looking antitrust review of large mergers within
the same industry, relevant in 2024 as the FTC has stepped up its antitrust enforcement.



6.        Conclusion
In this chapter, I review theoretical models of M&A. This includes models of (i) tender offers;
(ii) friendly (contested and uncontested) mergers, with a particular focus on deal terms;
(iii) M&A as real options with the focus on deal timing and asset pricing implications;
(iv) M&A and industry-level competition. I complement the review of each class of models
by highlighting overlaps across classes, particularly focusing on research that attempts to
integrate classic approaches into a more general framework. In the absence of such overlaps,
I provide some thoughts that may prove useful for future researchers interested in developing
a more general, better connected M&A theory.

  52
    It is easy to set up a continuous-time model in a competitive environment, so that only a pair of firms
considers a business combination at any given time, reducing the complexity of the problem. It is harder
to justify the same assumption in a discrete-time model.



                                                    53
References
Aguirregabiria, Victor, Allan Collard-Wexler, and Stephen P. Ryan, Dynamic games in industrial
organization, in Ho, K., A. Hortaçsu and A. Lizzeri (eds.), Handbook of Industrial Organization,
Elsevier B. V., volume 4, chapter 4, 225–343.

Asker, John, and Volker Nocke, 2021, Collusion, mergers, and related antitrust issues, in Ho, K.,
A. Hortaçsu and A. Lizzeri (eds.), Handbook of Industrial Organization, Elsevier B. V., volume 5,
chapter 12, 178–279.

Avery, Christopher, 1998, Strategic jump bidding in English auctions, Review of Economic Studies
65, 185–210.

Betton, Sandra, B. Espen Eckbo, and Karin S. Thorburn, 2009, Merger negotiations and the
toehold puzzle, Journal of Financial Economics 91, 158–178.

Bhattacharyya, Sugato, 1992, The analytics of takeover bidding: initial bids and their premia,
Working Paper.

Boone, Audra L., and J. Harold Mulherin, 2007, How are firms sold? Journal of Finance 62,
847–875.

Bulow, Jeremy, and Paul Klemperer, 1996, Auctions versus negotiations, American Economic
Review 86, 180–194.

Bulow, Jeremy, and Paul Klemperer, 2009, Why do sellers (usually) prefer auctions? American
Economic Review 99, 1544-1575.

Burkart, Mike, Denis Gromb, Holger M. Mueller and Fausto Panunzi, 2014, Legal investor pro-
tection and takeovers, Journal of Finance 69, 1129–1165.

Burkart, Mike, Denis Gromb, and Fausto Panunzi, 1998, Why higher takeover premia protect
minority shareholders, Journal of Political Economy 106, 172–204.

Burkart, Mike, and Samuel Lee, 2022, Activism and takeovers, Review of Financial Studies 35,
1868–1896.

Burkart, Mike, Samuel Lee, and Henrik Petri, 2023, LBO financing, Working Paper.

Burkart, Mike, Samuel Lee, and Paul Voss, 2025, The evolution of the market for corporate control,
Working Paper.

Burkart, Mike, and Fausto Panunzi, 2004, Mandatory bids, squeeze-out, sell-out and the dynamics
of the tender offer process, in Ferrarini, G., K. Hopt, J. Winter and E. Wymeersch (eds.), Modern
Company and Takeover Law in Europe, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 737–765.

Chatterjee, Sris, and An Yan, 2008, Using innovative securities under asymmetric information:
why do some firms pay with Contingent Value Rights? Journal of Financial & Quantitative
Analysis 43, 1001–1035.

                                               54
Che, Yeon-Koo, and Jinwoo Kim, 2010, Bidding with securities: comment, American Economic
Review 100, 1929–1935.

Chen, Yi, and Zhe Wang, 2023, Optimal sequential selling mechanism and deal protections in
mergers and acquisitions, Journal of Finance 78, 2139–2188.

Chen, Zhiyao, Hamed Mahmudi, Aazam Virani, and Xiaofei Zhao, 2022, Why are bidder ter-
mination provisions included in takeovers? Journal of Financial & Quantitative Analysis 57,
2860–2896.

Chaves, Isaı́as N., and Felipe Varas, 2022, Bargaining in securities, Working Paper.

Cho, In-Koo, and David M. Kreps, 1987, Signaling games and stable equilibria, Quarterly Journal
of Economics 102, 179–221.

Cho, In-Koo, and Joel Sobel, 1990, Strategic stability and uniqueness in signaling games, Journal
of Economic Theory 50, 381–413.

Chowdhry, Bhagwan, and Vikram Nanda, 1993, The strategic role of debt in takeover contests,
Journal of Finance 48, 731–745.

Crémer, Jacques, and Richard P. McLean, 1985, Optimal selling strategies under uncertainty for
a discriminating monopolist when demands are interdependent, Econometrica 45, 427–438.

Coase, Ronald H., 1960, The problem of social cost, Journal of Law and Economics 3, 1–44.

Corum, Adrian Aycan, and Doron Levit, 2019, Corporate control activism, Journal of Financial
Economics 133, 1–17.

Daley, Brendan, Thomas Geelen, and Brett Green, 2024, Due diligence, Journal of Finance 79,
2115–2161.

Daniel, Kent D., and David Hisrhleifer, 2018, A theory of costly sequential bidding, Review of
Finance 22, 1631–1665.

Dasgupta, Sudipto, and Robert G. Hansen, 2007, Auctions in corporate finance, in B. E. Eckbo
(ed.), Handbook of Corporate Finance: Empirical Corporate Finance, volume 1, chapter 3, 87–143.

DeMarzo, Peter M., Ilan Kremer, and Andrzej Skrzypacz, 2005, Bidding with securities: auctions
and security design, American Economic Review 95, 936–959.

Dimopoulos, Theodosios, and stefano Sacchetto, 2017, Merger activity in industry equilibrium,
Journal of Financial Economics 126, 200–226.

Edmans, Alex, Itay Goldstein, and Wei Jiang, 2015, Feedback effects, asymmetric trading, and
the limits to arbitrage, American Economic Review 105, 3766–3797.

Eckbo, Espen B., Andrey Malenko, and Karin S. Thorburn, 2020, Strategic decisions in takeover
auctions: recent developments, Annual Review of Financial Economics 12, 237–276.

Faccio, Mara, and Ronald W. Masulis, 2005, The choice of payment method in European mergers


                                               55
and acquisitions, Journal of Finance 60, 1345–1387.

Farrell, Joseph, and Carl Shapiro, 1990, Horizontal mergers: an equilibrium analysis, American
Economic Review 80, 107–126.

Fidrmuc, Jana P., Peter Roosenboom, Richard Paap, and Tim Teunissen, 2012, One size does not
fit all: selling firms to private equity versus strategic acquirers, Journal of Corporate Finance 18,
828–848.

Fishman, Michael J., 1988, A theory of preemptive takeover bidding, RAND Journal of Economics
19, 88–101.

Fishman, Michael J., 1989, Preemptive bidding and the role of the medium of exchange in acqui-
sitions, Journal of Finance 44, 41–57.

Fos, Vyacheslav, 2017, The disciplinary effects of proxy contests, Management Science 63, 655–
671.

Eckbo, B. Espen, Tanakorn Makaew, and Karin S. Thorburn, 2018, Are stock-financed takeovers
opportunistic?, Journal of Financial Economics 128, 443–465.

Eisdorfer, Assaf, Erwan Morellec, and Alexei Zhdanov, 2003, Takeover protections and asset prices,
Working Paper.

Gomes, Armando, 2024, Takeovers, freezeouts, and risk arbitrage, Games 15, 4.

Gorbenko, Alexander S., and Andrey Malenko, 2011, Competition among sellers in securities
auctions, American Economic Review 101, 1–38.

Gorbenko, Alexander S., and Andrey Malenko, 2014, Strategic and financial bidders in takeover
auctions, Journal of Finance 69, 2513–2555.

Gorbenko, Alexander S., and Andrey Malenko, 2018, The timing and method of payment in
mergers when acquirers are financially constrained, Review of Financial Studies 31, 3937–3977.

Gorbenko, Alexander S., and Andrey Malenko, 2024, Auctions with endogenous initiation, Journal
of Finance 79, 1353–1403.

Grossman, Sanford J., and Oliver D. Hart, 1980, Takeover bids, the free-rider problem, and the
theory of the corporation, Bell Journal of Economics 11, 42–64.

Grossman, Sanford J., and Motty Perry, 1986, Sequential bargaining under asymmetric informa-
tion, Journal of Economic Theory 39, 120–154.

Hackbarth, Dirk, and Erwan Morellec, 2008, Stock returns in mergers and acquisitions, Journal
of Finance 63, 1213–1252.

Hansen, Robert G., 1985, Auctions with contingent payments, American Economic Review 75,
862–865.

Harford, Jarrad, 1999, Corporate cash reserves and acquisitions, Journal of Finance 54, 1969–


                                                 56
1997.

Hirshleifer, Daniel, and Ivan P. L. Png, 1990, Facilitation of competing bids and the price of a
takeover target, Review of Financial Studies 2, 587–606.

Hirshleifer, Daniel, and Sheridan Titman, 1990, Share tendering strategies and the success of
hostile takeover bids, Journal of Political Economy 98, 295–324.

Hoffmann, Florian, and Vladimir Vladimirov, 2025, Auctions versus negotiations: the role of the
payment structure, Journal of Finance 80, 1769–1813.

Holmström, Bengt, and Barry Nalebuff, 1992, To the raider goes the surplus? A reexamination
of the free-rider problem, Journal of Economics & Management Strategy 1, 37–62.

Huang, Jindong, and Taojun Xie, 2023, Technology centrality, bilateral knowledge spillovers and
mergers and acquisitions, Journal of Corporate Finance 79: 102366.

Igami, Mitsuru, and Kosuke Uetake, 2020, Mergers, innovation, and entry-exit dynamics: consol-
idation of the hard disk drive industry, 1996–2016, Review of Economic Studies 87, 2672–2702.

Jovanovic, Boyan, and Serguey Braguinsky, 2004, Bidder discounts and target premia in takeovers,
American Economic Review 94, 46–56.

Jovanovic, Boyan, and Peter L. Rousseau, 2002, The Q-theory of mergers, American Economic
Review 92, 198–204.

Kaplan, Todd R., and Shmuel Zamir, 2012, Asymmetric first-price auctions with uniform distri-
butions: analytic solutions to the general case, Economic Theory 50, 269–302.

Kaplan, Todd R., and Shmuel Zamir, 2015, Multiple equilibria in asymmetric first-price auctions,
Economic Theory Bulletin 3, 65–77.

Krishna, Vijay, 2010, Auction theory, Second edition, Elsevier.

Lambrecht, Bart, 2004, The timing and terms of mergers motivated by economies of scale, Journal
of Financial Economics 72, 41–62.

La Porta, Rafael, Florencio Lopes-de-Silanes, Andrei Shleifer, and Robert W. Vishny, 1998, Law
and finance, Journal of Political Economy 106, 1113–1155.

Lebrun, Bernard, 1999, First price auctions in the asymmetric N bidder case, International Eco-
nomic Review 40, 125–142.

Leland, Hayne, 1994, Corporate debt value, bond covenants, and optimal capital structure, Journal
of Finance 49, 1213–1252.

Levit, Doron, 2019, Soft shareholder activism, Review of Financial Studies 32, 2775–2808.

Lopomo, Giuseppe, 1995, Optimality and robustness of the English auction, Working Paper.

Lukas, Elmar, Paulo J. Pereira, and Artur Rodrigues, 2023, On the determinants of the dynamic
choice between mergers and tender offers, Journal of Corporate Finance 83, 102489.

                                               57
Matsusaka, John G., 2001, Corporate diversification, value maximization, and organizational ca-
pabilities, Journal of Business 74, 409–431.

McAdams, David, and Michael Schwarz, 2007, Credible sales mechanisms and intermediaries,
American Economic Review 97, 260–276.

McAfee, R. Preston, John McMillan, and Philip J. Reny, 1989, Extracting the surplus in common
value auctions, Econometrica 57, 1451–1459.

McAfee, R. Preston, and Philip J. Reny, 1992, Correlated information and mechanism design,
Econometrica 60, 395–421.

Milgrom, Paul R., and Robert J. Weber, 1982, A theory of auctions and competitive bidding,
Econometrica 50, 1089-1122.

Morellec, Erwan, and Alexei Zhdanov, 2005, The dynamics of mergers and acquisitions, Journal
of Financial Economics 77, 649–672.

Morellec, Erwan, and Alexei Zhdanov, 2008, Financing and takeovers, Journal of Financial Eco-
nomics 87, 556–581.

Müller, Holger M., and Fausto Panunzi, 2004, Tender offers and leverage, Quarterly Journal of
Economics 119, 1217–1248.

Muthoo, Abhinay, 1999, Bargaining theory with applications, Cambridge University Press.

Myerson, Roger B., 1981, Optimal auction design, Mathematics of Operations Research 6, 58–73.

Povel, Paul, and Rajdeep Singh, 2010, Stapled finance, Journal of Finance 65, 927–954.

Quint, Daniel, and Kenneth Hendricks, 2018, A theory of indicative bidding, American Economic
Journal: Microeconomics 10, 118–151.

Ravid, Abraham S., and Matthew Spiegel, 1999, Toehold strategies, takeover laws, and rival
bidders, Journal of Banking & Finance 23, 1219–1242.

Rhodes-Kropf, Matthew, and David T. Robinson, 2008, The market for mergers and the bound-
aries of the firm, Journal of Finance 63, 1169–1211.

Rhodes-Kropf, Matthew, and S. Viswanathan, 2004, Market valuation and merger waves, Journal
of Finance 59, 2685–2718.

Riley, John G., and William F. Samuelson, 1981, Optimal auctions, American Economic Review
71, 381–392.

Rhodes-Kropf, Matthew, and S. Viswanathan, 2004, Market valuation and merger waves, Journal
of Banking & Finance 59, 2685–2718.

Shleifer, Andrei, and Robert W. Vishny, 1986, Large shareholders and corporate control, Journal
of Political Economy 94, 461–488.



                                              58
Shleifer, Andrei, and Robert W. Vishny, 2003, Stock market driven acquisitions, Journal of Fi-
nancial Economics 70, 295–311.

Skrzypacz, Andrzej, 2013, Auctions with contingent payments – an overview, International Journal
of Industrial Organization 31, 666–675.

Spiegel, Matthew, 2023, For corporate finance to truly advance we need more genuinely testable
models, Financial Review 58, 657–661.

Spiegel, Matthew, and Heather Tookes, 2013, Dynamic competition, valuation, and merger activ-
ity, Journal of Finance 68, 125–172.

Vladimirov, Vladimir, 2015, Financing bidders in takeover contests, Journal of Financial Eco-
nomics 117, 534–557.

Uetake, Kosuke, and Yasutora Watanabe, 2020, Entry by merger: estimates from a two-sided
matching model with externalities, Working Paper.

Wang, Wenyu, 2025, Structural estimation in mergers and acquisitions, Working Paper.

Yuan, Yue, 2024, Security design under common-value competition, Working Paper.




                                              59
