NBER WORKING PAPER SERIES
THE (MISSING) RELATION BETWEEN ACQUISITION ANNOUNCEMENT RETURNS 
AND VALUE CREATION
Itzhak Ben-David 
Utpal Bhattacharya 
Stacey E. Jacobsen
Working Paper 27976
http://www.nber.org/papers/w27976
NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH
1050 Massachusetts Avenue
Cambridge, MA 02138
October 2020, Revised May 2025
We thank Hank Bessembinder, Alon Brav, Elijah Broadbent, Alex Chinco, Nickolay Gantchev, 
John Graham, Douglas Hanna, Jarrad Harford, Cam Harvey, David Hirshleifer, Gerard Hoberg, 
Mohammad Irani, Pab Jotikasthira, Adam Kolasinski, Mattia Landoni, Christian Leuz, James 
Linck, Antonio Macias, Vojislav Maksimovic, Ulrike Malmendier, Darius Miller, Micah Officer, 
Rik Sen, Wayne Shaw, Jared Stanfield, Mike Stegemoller, René Stulz, Rex Thompson, Kumar 
Venkataraman, Mike Weisbach,  James Weston, Mike Wittry, and Feng Zhang, seminar 
participants at Baylor University, Baruch College, the Chinese University of Hong Kong, the Hong 
Kong University of Science and Technology, the University of Hong Kong, Southern Methodist 
University, The Ohio State University, the University at Buffalo, Texas Tech University, the 
University of Washington, the Korea University Business School, and the Korea Advanced 
Institute of Science & Technology, and conference participants at the American  Finance 
Association Conference, the Asian Bureau of Finance and Economic Research (ABFER) 
Conference, the Midwest Finance Association Conference, and the Financial Research Network 
(FIRN). Bhattacharya  acknowledges generous funding provided by the Hong Kong General 
Research Fund (GRF), Grant No. 16500118; apart from that, we have no conflicts of interest under 
the Journal of Finance policy.  The views expressed herein are those of the authors and do not 
necessarily reflect the views of the National Bureau of Economic Research.
NBER working papers are circulated for discussion and comment purposes. They have not been 
peer-reviewed or been subject to the review by the NBER Board of Directors that accompanies 
official NBER publications.
© 2020 by Itzhak Ben-David, Utpal Bhattacharya, and Stacey E. Jacobsen. All rights reserved. 
Short
 sections of text, not to exceed two paragraphs, may be quoted without explicit permission 
provided that full credit, including © notice, is given to the source.
The (Missing) Relation Between Acquisition Announcement Returns and Value Creation 
Itzhak Ben-David, Utpal Bhattacharya, and Stacey E. Jacobsen
NBER Working Paper No. 27976
October 2020, Revised May 2025
JEL No. G02, G14, G32, G34
ABSTRACT
Cumulative abnormal returns (CAR) computed around acquisition announcements are widely 
considered to be market-based assessments of expected value creation. We show, however, that 
announcement returns do not correlate with commonly used and new measures of ex-post 
outcomes. A simple characteristics model using standard information known at announcement can 
predict outcomes reasonably well, yet CAR fails even to capture the prediction from this model. 
Evidence suggests that information about the standalone acquirer dominates CAR, making it 
virtually impossible to extract deal-related information.  We conclude that CAR is an unreliable 
measure of expected value creation.
Itzhak Ben-David
The Ohio State University
and NBER
ben-david.1@osu.edu
Utpal Bhattacharya
Hong Kong University of Science
and Technology (HKUST) 
ubhattac@ust.hk
Stacey E. Jacobsen
Southern Methodist University
Finance Department
staceyj@cox.smu.edu
I. Introduction
Cumulative abnormal returns (CAR) computed around acquisition announcements are over-
whelmingly favored by financial economists to measure acquisitions’ net present value (NPV),
i.e., the expected value created for the acquirer by the acquisition. Accordingly, positive an-
nouncement returns are interpreted by researchers as indicative of positive NPV transactions
and vice versa. Over the last five decades, CAR has been used to measure value creation in
over 92% of the articles in top finance journals studying value creation in acquisitions. 1 The
deep conviction in CAR also spills over to business teaching and legal cases (Brealey et al.,
2006; Brav and Heaton, 2015).
The fact that CAR became the status quo empirical measure for value creation is surpris-
ing, given the disagreement about the underlying theory and the mixed empirical evidence.
Campbell et al. (1997) argue that CAR captures value creation in a well-functioning market:
“. . . given rationality in the marketplace, the effect of an event will be reflected immedi-
ately in asset prices.” Early empirical research in finance supported this view. Healy et al.
(1992) link announcement returns to operating cash flow improvements based on a sample
of 42 large acquisitions. Kaplan and Weisbach (1992) show that announcement returns were
lower for 37 transactions that were divested-at-a-loss than for 71 transactions that were
divested-at-a-gain years after the initial announcement. 2
Many studies present evidence that CAR has imperfections. Researchers have docu-
mented that CAR-based inferences about deal NPV could be distorted by anticipation,
leakage, low completion probability, feedback, and price pressure. 3 For example, the well-
1Our review of articles in the Journal of Finance , Journal of Financial Economics , and Review of
Financial Studies from 1972 to 2021 reveals that of the 4.8% of articles focusing on topics related to mergers
and acquisitions (M&As), 54.8% computed measures of acquisition value creation. Of these, 92.2%—a total
of 202 articles—used CAR to measure value creation. We detect no declining trend in its use.
2Later small-scale European market studies found mixed evidence (Schoenberg, 2006; Papadakis and
Thanos, 2010). Studies such as Jensen and Ruback (1983) and Bradley et al. (1988) document that mergers
often generate net positive wealth gains overall, and Moeller et al. (2005) further demonstrates that aggre-
gated CARs provide insights into acquisition waves, showing substantial wealth effects for shareholders in
large-scale deals.
3See Asquith et al. (1983), Jensen and Ruback (1983), Schipper and Thompson (1983a), Malatesta
and Thompson (1985), Jarrell and Poulsen (1987), Eckbo et al. (1990b), Meulbroek (1992), Schwert (1996),
Betton and Eckbo (2000), Bhattacharya et al. (2000), Song and Walkling (2000), Fuller et al. (2002), Mitchell
1
documented run-up in stock prices prior to merger announcements could indicate that prices
often incorporate a portion of the expected deal value before the event window used for CAR
calculation, leading to an underestimation of synergies and a muted response at announce-
ment (Malatesta and Thompson, 1985; Schwert, 1996; Cai et al., 2011). Also, acquisitions
by serial acquirers and those acquired via competitive bidding contests can influence the
distribution of CARs across time and parties, further complicating interpretation as value
is incrementally revealed. 4 CAR might also contain information unrelated to value cre-
ation (e.g., EPS accretion) and omit information known at the time of the announcement. 5
Studies have provided evidence that CAR may contain information about the standalone
acquirer, such as information related to overvaluation, strategy, managerial skill, managerial
risk aversion, and investment opportunities.6 In their textbook, Grinblatt and Titman (2002)
summarize this literature: “The stock returns of the bidder at the time of the announcement
of the bid may tell us more about how the market is reassessing the bidder’s business than
it does about the value of the acquisition.” Despite the evidence that CAR may not contain
information relevant to determine the value created in acquisitions, there is no decline in its
use: CAR has remained the primary tool of financial economists to assess the value created
in acquisitions.
Our study aims to assess whether these distortions are sufficiently small, allowing CAR
to serve as a proxy for value creation, or whether they overwhelm the underlying information
about NPV. Our results show these issues are pervasive and economically substantial.
We assess CAR’s validity as a measure of value creation in acquisitions using a com-
et al. (2004), Bhagat et al. (2005), King et al. (2005), Luo (2005), Betton et al. (2008), Viswanathan and
Wei (2008), Cai et al. (2011), Cornett et al. (2011), Edmans et al. (2012), Offenberg and Officer (2012),
Betton et al. (2014), Edmans et al. (2015), Wang (2018), Bennett and Dam (2019), and Irani (2020).
4See Asquith et al. (1983), Schipper and Thompson (1983a), Fuller et al. (2002), Moeller et al. (2005),
Billett and Qian (2008), Aktas et al. (2013), and Macias et al. (2016) for discussion on CARs for repeat
acquirers.
5See Mitchell and Stafford (2000), Powell and Stark (2005), Malmendier et al. (2018), Dasgupta et al.
(2024), and Ellahie et al. (2025).
6See Jensen and Ruback (1983), Schipper and Thompson (1983a), Roll (1986), Travlos (1987), Fishman
(1989), Berkovitch and Narayanan (1990), Eckbo et al. (1990a), Chang (1998), Fuller et al. (2002), Hietala
et al. (2003), Shleifer and Vishny (2003), Rhodes-Kropf and Viswanathan (2004), Rhodes-Kropf et al. (2005),
Bhagat et al. (2005), Ang et al. (2006), Dong et al. (2006), Jacobsen (2014), Ben-David et al. (2015), Pan
et al. (2016), Eckbo et al. (2018), and Gokkaya et al. (2024).
2
prehensive sample of over 47,000 acquisition announcements made over almost four decades
(1980–2018) to systematically assess the validity of CAR as a reliable measure of value cre-
ation in acquisitions. In the first part of the paper, we rely on several widely-used measures
of ex-post value creation and also devise novel measures. We find no meaningful correlation
between these measures and announcement returns. Instead, they are predictable at the
time of the announcement using standard deal information known at the announcement.
However, CAR also does not even correlate with this component, indicating that CAR fails
to reflect relevant information at the time of the announcement. In the second part of the
paper, we argue that the endogeneity of acquisition announcements is particularly prob-
lematic for inference based on the CAR = N P V assumption. We show that even under
the most favorable conditions, CAR includes both information about the net present value
(NPV) arising from the transaction and non-NPV information related to the event triggering
the deal announcement. We demonstrate that assuming CAR contains information strictly
about deal-related NPV yields a high prevalence of economically unrealistic inferences. A
formal empirical analysis of the second moment of CAR reveals that the non-NPV compo-
nent related to the acquirer likely dominates the deal information contained in CAR. We
conclude that CAR is an unreliable measure of value creation in acquisitions.
Our first series of empirical tests examines whether CAR aligns with observable ex-post
transaction- and firm-level outcome measures. Value creation is unobservable, so we develop
empirical measures—both established and novel—using diverse data sources to capture var-
ious facets of acquisition success. At the transaction level, we create a dummy to measure
acquisition failure. Specifically, we manually collect information on deal-level goodwill im-
pairments, i.e., accounting write-offs indicating that the target is no longer worth its original
price.7 At the acquirer level, we employ both short- and long-term abnormal return on as-
sets (ROA), measures commonly used in the literature (e.g., Healy et al., 1992; Harford and
Li, 2007). Importantly, despite being derived from different sources and capturing both the
left-tail and the entire distribution, these ex-post measures are positively and significantly
7Unlike other commonly used measures of performance, our goodwill impairment data are linked to
specific transactions rather than at the overall acquirer level. In Internet Appendix C, we validate that
goodwill impairment is a robust signal of value destruction by relating it to several indirect symptoms of
failure: poor stock and operating performance, distressed delisting, and management turnover. Our measure
is similar in spirit to that of Mitchell and Lehn (1990), Kaplan and Weisbach (1992), and Berger and Ofek
(1996), who construct a transaction failure measure based on transactions for which targets are divested at
a loss. However, the sample size utilized in these studies is small since, to determine merger success, the
study limits the sample to acquirers who disposed of their target in later years.
3
correlated with each other. Following the literature, we also consider whether managers
“listen to” CAR and include completion (versus withdrawal) as an additional outcome vari-
able (Asquith et al., 1983; Jennings and Mazzeo, 1991; Luo, 2005; Kau et al., 2008).
We document that announcement returns are largely uncorrelated with non-impairment
and short- and long-term abnormal ROA. We find no meaningful correlation in univariate
and multivariate settings, either in- or out-of-sample, across multiple announcement return
windows and estimation techniques. Similar to Luo (2005), we find that announcement
returns are positively and significantly related to deal completion. However, the economic
magnitudes of these effects are very small.
We find that CAR continues to fail to correlate with outcomes in simple subsamples
based on different time periods and on an extensive number of acquirer characteristics (e.g.,
serial vs. first-time bidders), target characteristics (e.g., public vs. private), and transaction
characteristics (e.g., cash vs. stock)—even in subsamples where we expect CAR to perform
better. We conduct a brute-force data-mining effort, searching among complex subsample
formations to find the “golden subset” in which CAR consistently correlates with outcomes.
We are unable to identify a group of transactions for which CAR is a reliable predictor of
outcomes. We therefore conclude that CAR’s unreliability is not limited to specific subsets
of data or specific periods. In other words, the lack of correlation between CAR and deal
outcomes appears to be systematic.
Given that CAR does not correlate with ex-post outcomes, we next explore its negligible
correlation with acquisition outcomes by relating CAR to another ex-ante measure: a simple
benchmark we construct using standard deal and acquirer characteristics available at the
time of the announcement. While outcomes can be predicted reasonably well using deal and
acquirer characteristics (both in-sample and out-of-sample), CAR performs poorly relative
to this simple benchmark. In out-of-sample tests, we examine the link between CAR and
expected acquisition outcomes—i.e., predicted by characteristics known at the time of the
announcement. Our results show that CAR does not correlate with this measure of expected
outcomes, indicating that announcement returns do not reflect all relevant information pub-
licly available at the time of the announcement.
We corroborate our inference of a wide disparity between the predictive ability of CAR
and that of a characteristics model by linking predicted acquisition outcomes to long-term
returns. We sort acquirers into deciles of predicted outcomes using CAR or the character-
istics model (i.e., characteristics that predict more favorable acquisition outcomes, such as
high abnormal ROA, for acquirers in top deciles) and compute returns for each decile. The
characteristics model generates a large return spread: the performance spread in the five-year
characteristics-adjusted cumulative buy-and-hold monthly returns (DGTW-adjusted BHAR
4
used by Daniel et al., 1997) between the top and bottom three deciles ranges from 7 .9% to
10.7%. In contrast, the return spread between the top and bottom three deciles, as deter-
mined by CAR, ranges from 0.8% to 2.8%. The link between predicted acquisition outcomes
by characteristics and long-term returns further validates our value creation proxies, provid-
ing additional evidence that announcement returns do not reflect all relevant information at
the time of the announcement.
We next consider whether the lack of a material relation between acquisition outcomes
and announcement returns can be explained by anticipation (the announcement is not a
surprise), truncation (the component of CAR related to deal completion uncertainty), selec-
tion (completed deals are not a random sample of announced deals), or feedback (managers
take action, such as canceling the deal or working harder, in response to negative or pos-
itive CAR). We shed light on the magnitude of these effects with three tests. First, we
identify a sample of deals that are “explicitly” or “potentially” anticipated and find that
these deals are not driving the lack of correlation between outcomes (e.g., non-impairment,
abnormal ROA) and CAR. Second, since completion outcomes can be predicted reasonably
well out-of-sample using deal and acquirer characteristics, we next document that the lack
of correlation between CAR and outcomes persists even for a sample of deals with a high
likelihood of completion. Third, we consider the benefits of “listening” to CAR. We find that
withdrawing (versus completing) negative-CAR deals and completing (versus withdrawing)
positive-CAR deals generates a long-term return loss of −5%. In contrast, “listening” to the
benchmark characteristics model generates a long-term return spread of more than 20%. We
conclude that these four effects, while present, are unlikely to be the primary driver of the
lack of correlation between CAR and outcomes.
Following the extensive body of literature that examines the “types” of transactions that
create or destroy value, we consider how inferences are altered by the lack of association
between announcement returns and ex-post outcomes. Our four ex-post outcomes are asso-
ciated with similar deal and acquirer characteristics. Strikingly, we find no association (in
terms of sign and relative importance) between the characteristics for which CAR predicts
failure or success and those associated with ex-post failure or success. Using the four most
common characteristics used in the literature (form of payment, the target’s public status,
acquirer size, and relative transaction size), we form 16 “clusters” of transactions and find
minimal overlap in the performance of clusters based on CAR versus our ex-post outcomes.
For example, the cluster considered to create the most value according to CAR has the poor-
est ex-post outcomes among the 16 clusters, and the cluster considered to destroy the most
value according to CAR is associated with above-median ex-post outcomes. These results
indicate that inferences generated from CAR regarding deal quality are unreliable.
5
In the final section, we argue that CAR fails to capture NPV-related information because
it reflects significant acquirer-related factors unrelated to the deal’s NPV. Specifically, CAR
embeds information about the economic conditions prompting the acquisition—likely stem-
ming from the endogenous nature of acquisition decisions. Firms engage in acquisitions in
response to internal or external triggers, for example, a failure of an internal R&D project or
a strategic decision to enter a new market. Therefore, the acquisition announcement updates
investors’ beliefs about the value of the standalone acquirer, in addition to providing NPV
information about the deal.
We conjecture that CAR reflects two distinct signals: the deal’s true NPV and a sep-
arate acquirer-specific signal ( X), with the latter likely dominating. To illustrate this, we
examine the statistical properties of CAR. Economically, one would expect the range of
value creation outcomes to scale with transaction size. Consider, for example, an acquirer
undertaking two vastly different transactions: one with a ratio of 1:1,000 relative to its mar-
ket capitalization, and another at 1:10. Intuitively, the smaller transaction should yield a
narrower range of value creation outcomes. However, empirically, the distribution of CAR
appears almost invariant to transaction size. Figure 1 highlights this finding: CAR distri-
butions for small deals (e.g., 1:1,000) closely mirror those of considerably larger deals (e.g.,
1:100 or 1:10). To illustrate the economic implausibility, consider a $1,000bn acquirer mak-
ing two acquisitions—one $100bn and the other $1bn. According to the CAR distribution
shown in Figure 1, the implied range of value creation for the larger$100bn acquisition spans
$−54bn (10th percentile) to $77bn (90th percentile). Surprisingly, the 100× smaller $1bn deal
exhibits nearly the same CAR distribution, $−40bn and $47bn, implying an economically
unreasonable value creation range. These results strongly suggest that CAR predominantly
captures acquirer-specific signals rather than the actual deal NPV.
We further show that ignoring the acquirer-related information leads to several implau-
sible conclusions. Specifically, the assumption that CAR = N P V yields unreasonably large
positive or negative implied NPVs and fails to account for significant changes in the acquirer’s
value when deals are announced and subsequently withdrawn. These findings suggest that
traditional methods of controlling for acquirer characteristics are insufficient because the
acquirer-related information embedded in CAR is often idiosyncratic and not captured by
standard firm-level variables.
Our empirical analysis demonstrates that acquirer-related information ( X) dominates
what CAR captures. Specifically, we find that CAR’s variations are influenced by the ac-
quirer’s size and standalone information about the firm more than by the size or specifics of
the deal. This dominance renders CAR a poor proxy for the deal’s NPV.
To conclude, across multiple methodologies and samples, we find that CAR is an unre-
6
Figure 1. The Distribution of CAR [−1, 1] With Respect to Relative Size
This figure shows the distribution of cumulative abnormal returns (CAR[ −1, 1]) around acquisition an-
nouncements, plotted against the ratio of transaction value to the acquirer’s market capitalization, for deals
with ratios below 1:2. CAR distributions vary only modestly across different deal-sizes indicating that CAR
is only minutely related to relative transaction size.
1:1000 1:100 1:50 1:20 1:10 1:5 1:2
−20%
−10%
0%
10%
20%
Relative size
CAR distributionp50 p5–p95
p10–p90 p25–p75
liable measure of NPV. It appears to be swamped with information unrelated to the value
created by the deal itself; as a result, researchers cannot extract the true deal NPV from
CAR. Researchers should, therefore, reconsider economic inferences based on CAR. This
insight underscores the need for alternative measures to assess acquisition outcomes more
accurately.
II. Sample and Outcome Measures
This section details the construction of our acquisition sample and the ex-ante and ex-
post measures used to capture both transaction- and acquirer-level outcomes.
A. Acquisition Sample Construction
Our sample of mergers and acquisitions comes from the Thomson Reuters Securities
Data Company (SDC) Domestic Merger and Acquisition database. The sample begins in
1980 and ends in 2018, which allows us to track acquisition outcomes over the five years
following the transaction. We include transactions that satisfy the following criteria: (a) the
merger or acquisition was announced on or after January 1, 1980, and was effective by
December 31, 2018; (b) the acquirer is a U.S. company; (c) the acquirer is a publicly-traded
firm; (d) the deal is not classified as a leveraged buyout, spinoff, repurchase, self-tender,
7
recapitalization, privatization, stake purchase, or acquisition of partial or remaining interest;
(e) the percentage of shares acquired (or sought for not completed deals) is at least 50%;
(f) the percentage of shares held by the acquirer six months before the announcement is less
than 50%; (g) Compustat has accounting data on the bidder, and the Center for Research
in Security Prices (CRSP) database has stock data for the month of the deal announcement;
and (h) the deal value is non-missing in the SDC database. These requirements result in an
initial sample of 47,543 deals, of which 42,354 are completed, 2,227 are withdrawn (the deal
outcome is known in these cases), and 2,962 are not completed but not withdrawn (e.g., the
transaction may be pending or the outcome is unknown; these we exclude from the main
analysis in Section III but include in robustness tests and retain in Section IV). Internet
Appendix Table IA.A1 provides a detailed summary of our sample construction and number
of observations.
B. Acquisition Performance Measures
For each transaction, we compute acquirer announcement returns. We estimate daily
abnormal returns using a market model and a value-weighted index. The market model pa-
rameters, αi and βi, are estimated from 361 to 61 trading days before the deal announcement
day, and rmt is the CRSP value-weighted index. CARs are then computed by summing the
daily abnormal returns over various event horizons. Following the literature (e.g., Betton
et al., 2008), we estimate CARs over three days [ −1, 1] and 11 days [ −5, 5] surrounding
each acquisition announcement. CAR may understate absolute value expectations if the
probability of deal completion is uncertain. Thus, we also estimate “Deal CARs” over the
entire acquisition process beginning two days before the announcement and ending two days
following the deal completion [Announcement − 2, Close + 2]. The advantage of this longer
window is that uncertainty regarding deal completion is resolved. However, the disadvan-
tage is that returns are measured over a long window and may include other acquirer-specific
information. Therefore, we focus primarily on the short-term CAR measures.
We construct transaction- and firm-level proxies for acquisition outcomes to assess the
core relation between announcement returns and value creation. Due to differences in data
availability across outcome measures, the sample sizes vary for each measure. We provide
further details on sample filters and the number of observations for the various outcome
variables in Internet Appendix A.
8
B.1. Transaction-level Ex-post Measure: Goodwill Non-impairment
Measuring the extent to which specific acquisitions create or destroy value for the acquir-
ing firm is challenging since the target is typically merged into the acquiring entity. Normally,
one cannot directly observe the target’s ex-post performance or the synergies generated from
the combined firms.
We overcome this hurdle by focusing on goodwill impairment: acquirers must write down
the goodwill associated with a target when it declines in value. Following an accounting rule
change in 2001 (SFAS-142), acquirers must evaluate goodwill balances more frequently and
must provide more detail regarding transaction-level goodwill. We rely on this increased
transparency in accounting rules for goodwill impairment to construct a new transaction-level
measure of acquisition failure. We construct a dummy of whether the goodwill associated
with the transaction was materially impaired within five years of the deal’s completion date.
We manually collect a sample of transactions with goodwill write-downs identified at the
transaction level. These data offer a direct and quantifiable representation of ex-post value
destruction in the acquiring firm for at least three reasons. First, goodwill, defined as the por-
tion of the purchase price over the fair value of the target’s identifiable net assets, reflects the
going concern value of the target, the value of expected synergies, and overpayment. There-
fore, the write-down of goodwill reflects value destruction caused by the following factors:
overvaluation of existing assets, overestimated synergies, or the inability to realize synergies
due to firm, industry, or economy-wide shocks. Second, the quality of goodwill impairment
data has improved in recent years. The Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 142,
passed in 2001, was implemented with the intent that unsuccessful acquisitions would be
reflected more precisely and quickly in firms’ financial statements. After the completion of
an acquisition, firms must conduct impairment tests following “material” events, and for
many years in our sample, firms were required to conduct routine annual impairment tests
to check for reductions in the value of goodwill. 8 The new standard also requires increased
transparency for goodwill and impairment reporting at the reporting unit rather than at the
firm level, making it easier to link impairment to a specific triggering transaction. Third,
prior research has documented that goodwill impairment events are value-relevant (Henning
and Stock, 1997; Bens et al., 2011; Chen et al., 2011; Gu and Lev, 2011; Li et al., 2011).
We provide evidence that goodwill impairment is a signal of value destruction by relating
our impairment measure to several indirect symptoms of acquisition failure. First, acquirers
8In September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) modified SFAS 142 such that
formal valuations to produce comparisons of fair value and carrying value of a reporting unit are only required
when certain qualitative indicators of impairment exist.
9
that impair goodwill are more likely to experience distressed delisting and poor operating
and stock performance in the years following the acquisition relative to acquirers without
impairment (Internet Appendices B and C). Second, the market reaction to earnings an-
nouncements that contain goodwill impairment news is negative and large in magnitude,
−2.8% on average (Internet Appendix A). 9 Third, CEOs are more likely to be fired in the
period surrounding goodwill impairments than following negative CARs surrounding the
original acquisition announcements (Internet Appendix D), indicating that the labor market
regards impairment as an important signal for managerial discipline. 10
One drawback of goodwill impairment as a measure of acquisition failure is the poten-
tial for subjectivity. Researchers have documented managerial discretion in the write-down
decision, mainly about the amount and timing of the impairment. 11 In this paper, we focus
on substantial goodwill impairments, a setting in which strategic manipulation is less viable
because extreme losses must be revealed at some point. 12 Further, we focus on a dummy for
impairment; thus, our results are less sensitive to the amount and timing of impairment.
Linking goodwill impairment to specific transactions is not straightforward because good-
will and impairment data reported on financial statements are based on aggregate firm-level
data. As a result, we manually collect goodwill and impairment (if any) data. We identify
all sample firms with firm-level goodwill impairments indicated in Compustat. For these
“potentially” impaired transactions, we use the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
in both the acquisition and impairment years to determine whether and how much of the
impairment is due to the specific transaction in our sample. We focus on impairment within
five years of the deal’s effective date. 13
9Note that impairment news is a strictly negative piece of news about an event that has already happened.
The fact that the market reaction is negative, given this stale negative news, does not conflict with the main
finding of the study that CAR is not associated with future changes in cash flows.
10Of course, there are settings where impairment may not imply value destruction. For example, a target
may be shut down once a target technology is exploited or a competitor is eliminated (e.g., Cunningham
et al., 2021). Our results indicate that goodwill impairment is, in the vast majority of settings, associated
with value destruction.
11See Elliott and Shaw (1988), Francis et al. (1996), Beatty and Weber (2006), Ramanna and Watts
(2012), and Li and Sloan (2017).
12Our initial sample of potentially impaired deals requires firm-level impairment of at least 5% of acquirers’
assets.
13To our knowledge, we are the first to construct a comprehensive dataset that includes transaction-
10
For our analyses involving goodwill impairment, we impose additional filters on the 42,354
completed deals described in Section A. First, our sample starts in 2003, when we can
begin tracking goodwill impairment at the transaction level due to the implementation of
SFAS 142 in 2002. Second, we require the transaction value to exceed $10 million and to
be at least 5% of the acquirer’s market capitalization at the end of the fiscal year before
the deal is announced. This filter allows for a more precise measure of impairment: for very
small deals (both in dollar and relative terms), it is difficult to determine the source of the
impairment and, in many instances, the amount of goodwill originally produced from the
transaction. These filters result in 8,367 deals. We exclude deals that have missing or zero
Compustat goodwill balances in both the year of and the year after the completion date,
which yields 6,767 deals. Of these, we can reliably classify acquisition outcomes (transaction-
level impairment or not) for 6,437 deals, of which 6,128 have the required announcement
return and control variables.
Internet Appendix Table IA.A3 provides further details about the data collection proce-
dure and shows that we successfully linked impairment events to specific transactions. As
reported in Internet Appendix Table IA.A4, goodwill impairments are relatively common:
14.8% of transactions in our sample experience an impairment event. The value lost from
impairments is substantial: the average impairment constitutes 83% of transaction-level
goodwill, 57% of the purchase price, and 11% of acquirer assets.
B.2. Firm-level Ex-post Measure: Abnormal Return-on-assets
We follow existing studies that approximate the contribution of acquisitions to the ac-
quirers’ cash flows by calculating their abnormal ROA (e.g., Healy et al., 1992; Chen et al.,
2007; Fu et al., 2013). The idea is that the change in the acquirer’s cash flows can be de-
tected relative to the acquirer’s performance and to the industry in the period preceding the
acquisition.
We follow the procedure in Chen et al. (2007) and compute abnormal ROA over the
years following the acquisition. To measure abnormal ROA, we regress the post-acquisition
industry-adjusted n-year average ROA (t + 1, t + 2, . . . , t+ n) on the pre-acquisition corre-
specific goodwill balances and transaction-specific impairment outcomes in the post-SFAS 142 period. Hayn
and Hughes (2006) also trace initial goodwill balances and subsequent impairments at the transaction level,
but they exclude 55% of transactions due to insufficient information. Overall, they focus largely on the
pre-SFAS 142 period, a time when the disclosure of initial goodwill and the source of the impairment was
generally less comprehensive.
11
sponding measure ( t − n, . . . , t− 2, t − 1) and a constant:
1
n
nX
t=1
[ROAi,t − ROAIndustry,t ] = α + β 1
n
−1X
t=−n
[ROAi,t − ROAIndustry,t ] + εi, (1)
where the residual εi measures the abnormal ROA.
For our “short-term abnormal ROA” measure, we define the post-acquisition (pre-
acquisition) period as the three years after (before) the deal’s effective date. We use three
years as a plausible horizon because the median acquirer with goodwill impairment writes
down by the third year following the acquisition. We also employ a longer horizon of up to
six years to capture synergy realization: for our “long-term abnormal ROA” measure, we
change the post-acquisition period to years four, five, and six after the deal’s effective date.
Industry definitions are based on the Fama-French 48 industries (Fama and French, 1997).
As discussed in Chen et al. (2007), this model considers the possibility that pre-acquisition
operating performance could predict post-acquisition operating performance. Because of
data availability issues, we can compute short-term (long-term) abnormal ROA and the
required control variables for 28,710 (22,577) transactions out of the 42,354 completed ac-
quisitions. We provide further details on sample filters and the number of observations for
the various outcome variables in Internet Appendix Table IA.A2.
The acquirer-level abnormal ROA performance measure has both advantages and disad-
vantages relative to our transaction-level goodwill impairment dummy. The transaction-level
deal success dummy (non-impairment) is binary and captures extreme value loss (when the
dummy is set to 0). In contrast, acquirer-level measures, like CAR or abnormal ROA, are
continuous and may potentially capture nuanced outcomes. However, these measures can
also be impacted by firm or market factors that are unrelated to the transaction.
B.3. Transaction-level Ex-post Measure: Deal Withdrawal
If announcement returns reflect expected value creation from the transaction, managers
should utilize this signal to continue or cancel the acquisition. Following the literature, we
construct a dummy variable for whether the deal was completed or withdrawn (e.g., Asquith
et al., 1983; Jennings and Mazzeo, 1991; Luo, 2005; Kau et al., 2008). 14
Earlier studies found mixed evidence about the correlation between CAR and withdrawal
propensity. Jennings and Mazzeo (1991) find no such correlation, while Luo (2005) and Kau
14We include only completed and withdrawn deals in this analysis as the outcome is often uncertain for
deals that are not completed but not formally withdrawn.
12
et al. (2008) find that deal withdrawal is more likely following negative CAR, particularly
in settings where managerial “learning” is likely more important. We expand these studies
by including a large sample of 39,585 transactions (of completed and withdrawn deals with
non-missing control variables) in the period 1980 to 2018, and unlike previous studies (e.g.,
Luo, 2005), we include both public and private targets. We study the relation between CAR
and withdrawal in-sample and out-of-sample and examine whether CAR fails to capture all
information regarding withdrawal probability at announcement. 15
The use of withdrawn/completed deals brings an additional benefit. We can now examine
the dampening effects of “feedback”—managers withdraw the bid if CAR is too negative—
on the core relation between CAR and outcomes. We discuss feedback in greater detail in
Section III.
C. Descriptive Statistics of Outcome Measures
We report our sample summary statistics and correlations in Table I. We winsorize all
continuous variables at the 1% level to reduce the effect of outliers. Panel A shows summary
statistics for our acquisition performance measures. On average, 85% of transactions do
not experience firm-level impairment; of the subset of failed acquisitions, Internet Appendix
Table IA.A4 shows that 79% of impairments occur within the third year following the deal
effective date, and the remaining 21% of impairments happen in the fourth and fifth year.
The average acquirer has a small negative short-term abnormal ROA of −0.22% and long-
term abnormal ROA of −0.21%. In our sample, 94% of transactions are completed and
not withdrawn. 16 On average, announcement returns are positive in the immediate period
surrounding the event, with three-day and 11-day CARs ranging from 0.83% to 0.88%.
However, the cumulative return from the announcement to the deal-closing date (Deal CAR)
15Of course, some deal cancellation decisions are outside the control of the acquiring firm’s management
(e.g., transactions canceled due to regulatory pressure or a failed vote by target shareholders). Jacobsen
(2014) shows that of withdrawn deals, 14% are canceled due to regulatory or judicial obstacles, and 13% are
canceled due to target shareholders blocking or voting against the deal.
16This completion rate is slightly higher than the rates reported in Luo (2005), Kau et al. (2008), and
Ellahie et al. (2025), who focus either on only public targets or on an earlier period. For example, in our
sample, only 82% of public target deals are completed, whereas 97% of private target deals are completed.
We find similar completion rates if we look at the sample period used in Luo (2005) and Kau et al. (2008),
mostly in the 1990s.
13
Table I. Descriptive Statistics of the Measures
This table reports descriptive statistics of the ex-ante and ex-post measures of acquisition quality. Panel A
presents summary statistics, and Panel B shows correlations. All continuous variables are winsorized at the
1% level. ***, **, and * indicate statistical significance at the 1%, 5%, and 10% level, respectively.
Panel A: Summary Statistics
N Mean Std Dev P10 P50 P90
Non-impairment 6,128 0.852 0.355 0 1 1
Short-term abnormal ROA (ST abROA) 28,710 −0.002 0.082 −0.078 −0.006 0.091
Long-term abnormal ROA (LT abROA) 22,577 −0.002 0.091 −0.086 −0.007 0.097
Completion 39,585 0.944 0.230 1 1 1
CAR[−1, 1] 28,710 0.009 0.066 −0.056 0.003 0.080
CAR[−5, 5] 28,710 0.008 0.100 −0.099 0.002 0.122
DealCAR[A − 2, C + 2] 28,710 −0.011 0.199 −0.218 −0.001 0.183
DGTW-adjusted BHAR (Adj BHAR) 27,355 −0.096 1.225 −1.289 −0.293 1.214
Panel B: Correlations
Non- ST LT Comp- CAR DealCAR Adj
impair abROA abROA letion [ −1, 1] [ −5, 5] [ A − 2, C + 2] BHAR
Non-impairment 1
ST abROA 0.133*** 1
LT abROA 0.127*** 0.671*** 1
Completion — — — 1
CAR[−1, 1] −0.004 0.003 −0.010 0.015*** 1
CAR[−5, 5] 0.002 −0.002 −0.005 0.015*** 0.628*** 1
DealCAR[A − 2, C + 2] 0.047*** 0.020*** 0.009 — 0.354*** 0.398*** 1
Adj BHAR 0.252*** 0.221*** 0.257*** 0.018*** 0.040*** 0.070*** 0.121*** 1
is negative at −1.12%.17
We also measure characteristics-adjusted cumulative buy-and-hold monthly returns
(DGTW-adjusted BHAR used by Daniel et al., 1997), in line with the literature study-
ing the long-term performance of acquirers (e.g., Mitchell and Stafford, 2000; Dong et al.,
2006; Ben-David et al., 2015). 18 The average DGTW-adjusted BHAR over the 60 months
beginning from the month before the deal’s announcement is −9.6%. Since expected value
creation/destruction from a particular deal is not observable, we utilize the above multiple
outcome measures derived from different sources (each with its strengths and weaknesses),
and importantly, we find they are correlated. Table I, Panel B shows that the correlation
17Our three-day CAR estimate is similar to that of Betton et al. (2008), who document a mean three-day
CAR of 0.73%.
18The DGTW adjustment procedure involves adjusting returns by the returns of benchmark portfolios
based on characteristics. We form 5 × 5 × 5 portfolios each month based on size, the book-to-market ratio,
and 12-month past returns.
14
coefficients across the four ex-post outcome variables range between 0.13 and 0.67. These cor-
relations dramatically exceed correlations with CAR for each outcome variable; correlation
coefficients with three-day and 11-day CAR range from −0.01 to 0.02. Correlations between
outcomes and Deal CAR, measured over a longer window, range from 0.01 to 0.05. We also
find that our outcome variables are correlated with long-term returns: correlations between
DGTW-adjusted BHAR and non-impairment, and the two abnormal ROA measures range
from 0.22 and 0.26. In contrast, the correlation between DGTW-adjusted BHAR and three-
day and 11-day CAR ranges from 0.04 to 0.07, and the correlation between DGTW-adjusted
BHAR and CAR from announcement to close (Deal CAR) is 0.12. Indeed, correlations
between the three CAR definitions are also not strong in a relative sense: the correlation
between three-day CAR and Deal CAR is only 0.35, whereas the correlation between short-
and long-term abnormal ROA is 0.67.
To summarize, across four ex-post acquisition outcome measures—transaction-level im-
pairment, short-term and long-term abnormal ROA, and deal completion probability—we
observe significant correlations but only very weak correlations between CAR and these
acquisition outcome measures. We now turn to formal tests of these correlations.
III. Predicting Acquisition Outcomes
In this section, we test the ability of announcement returns to capture acquisition value
creation by relating CAR to the observable ex-post measures described in Section II. We
follow a multipronged approach to test our null hypothesis that CAR measures NPV, i.e.,
the net present value of cash flows arising from the acquisition.
We first test the correlation between CAR and realized acquisition outcomes (non-
impairment, short- and long-term abnormal ROA, and completion). Because the measures
capture realized rather than “expected” outcomes and because there is no clear guide for the
level of correlation that deems CAR an adequate measure of NPV, we construct a simple
benchmark measure using data also available at the time of the acquisition announcement,
based on the standard set of deal and acquirer characteristics used in previous studies. We
measure the forecasting ability of CAR and the benchmark characteristics model in-sample
and out-of-sample by decade, industry, deal, and firm characteristics.
In the second set of tests, we relate CAR to other “ex-ante” outcomes. Because our
benchmark characteristics model correlates reasonably well with ex-post outcomes, we con-
sider whether CAR captures other value-relevant information known at the time of the
announcement by relating CAR to predicted outcomes based on the benchmark model. To
further assess whether value-relevant information exists at the time of the announcement and
15
to validate our acquisition value creation proxies, we link predicted acquisition outcomes (by
the benchmark characteristics model or by CAR) to long-term returns. We consider the
return spread between acquirers expected to do well (e.g., the benchmark characteristics
model or CAR predicts high ROA) and acquirers expected to do poorly.
In the third set of tests, we assess the impact of anticipation of the deal announcement,
uncertainty about deal completion, selection issues (due to non-random deal cancellation),
and feedback effects (whereby managers respond to CAR) on the core relation between CAR
and outcomes.
Our final tests consider inferences generated by CAR relative to those generated by our
benchmark measure on the “types” of deals associated with ex-post value creation. We
consider whether the types of transactions (e.g., cash, private target) predicted to create or
destroy value by CAR align with the types of transactions that do well ex-post and the types
of transactions predicted to do well by our benchmark characteristics measure.
A. Visual Examination
We examine the unconditional relation between transaction- and acquirer-level outcomes
and CAR. The implicit assumption behind using CAR to estimate value creation is that
CAR is positively correlated with ex-post outcomes.
The results of the visual examination are presented in Figure 2. We sort CAR[ −1, 1]
into 20 equally-sized bins and present the related outcome statistics. In Panel (a), we
present the fraction of transactions without transaction-level impairment. The panel shows
little correlation between the realized likelihood of non-impairment and CAR: impairment
outcomes vary little across CAR vigintiles.
Panels (b) and (c) show firm-level outcomes related to abnormal ROA. Panel (b) presents
the relation between the average realized percentile of short-term abnormal ROA (percentiles
within the sample) and CAR vigintiles, and Panel (c) shows the relation between long-
term abnormal ROA and CAR vigintiles. Neither chart shows any meaningful correlation
between firm-level outcomes and CAR. Panel (d) presents the relation between the fraction
of transactions completed (rather than withdrawn) and CAR. For the lowest CAR bins,
completion rates are particularly low. However, for the remaining bins, there is little relation
between completion rates and CAR, and even a reduction in completion rates for the very
highest CAR bins.
Overall, a first visual pass reveals no meaningful association between transaction- and
acquirer-level outcomes and CAR.
16
Figure 2. CAR [−1, 1] and Ex-post Outcomes
Observations are sorted into 20 equally-sized bins based on their CAR[ −1, 1]. Panel (a) plots the percentage
of transactions without impairment for each acquirer’s CAR[ −1, 1] vigintile (the solid red line). Panels (b)
and (c) present the average realized percentile of short- and long-term abnormal ROA, respectively, and
Panel (d) presents the realized frequency of completion for each vigintile of CAR. The light red shading
indicates 95% confidence intervals. The horizontal black dashed line represents the unconditional realized
frequency (Panels (a) and (d)) and unconditional realized percentile (Panels (b) and (c)) in our sample.
−.2 −.1 0 .1 .2 .3
60
70
80
90
100
Cumulative abnormal return [ −1, 1]
Realized frequency (%)
(a) Likelihood of non-impairment
−.1 0 .1 .2
40
45
50
55
60
Cumulative abnormal return [ −1, 1]
Realized percentile
(b) Percentile of short-term abnormal ROA
−.1 0 .1 .2
40
45
50
55
60
Cumulative abnormal return [ −1, 1]
Realized percentile
(c) Percentile of long-term abnormal ROA
−.2 −.1 0 .1 .2 .3
80
85
90
95
100
Cumulative abnormal return [ −1, 1]
Realized frequency (%)
(d) Likelihood of completion
B. In-sample Tests: CAR versus Characteristics
Next, we explore the correlation between the various outcome variables and CAR in a
regression framework. Table II reports regressions with acquisition outcome measures as
the dependent variables and acquirer CARs over multiple windows surrounding the deal
announcement as the key independent variables of interest. Panel A reports the results of
ordinary least squares (OLS) regressions that model the probability of no goodwill impair-
ment within five years of the deal’s effective date. Panels B and C report the results of OLS
regressions with short- and long-term abnormal ROA as the dependent variable, respectively,
and Panel D reports the results of OLS regressions with the probability of completion as the
dependent variable. Some regressions include the following acquirer and deal characteristics
as controls: the log of market capitalization, leverage and free cash flow scaled by previous-
year assets, Tobin’s Q, previous-quarter market-adjusted stock returns, relative deal size, and
17
Table II. Acquirer CAR and Acquisition Outcomes
This table presents regression results analyzing the relationship between acquisition outcomes and acquirer
cumulative abnormal returns (CAR). The dependent variables include a non-impairment dummy (Panel A),
short-term abnormal ROA (Panel B), long-term abnormal ROA (Panel C), and a completion dummy
(Panel D). Columns (1)–(3) use CAR as the sole independent variable. Column (4) adds firm charac-
teristics, and Column (5) incorporates both characteristics and year and industry fixed effects. Column (6)
includes only characteristics, and Column (7) combines characteristics with year and industry fixed effects.
The control variables include the log of market capitalization, leverage, and free cash flow scaled by lagged
assets, Tobin’s Q, prior-quarter market-adjusted stock returns, relative deal size, and dummy variables for
stock-only, mixed-payment, diversifying, competed, hostile, and public target deals. Firm-level characteris-
tics are measured in the year prior to the deal announcement. Standard errors are shown in parentheses,
and ***, **, and * denote statistical significance at the 1%, 5%, and 10% levels, respectively.
CAR window: [ −1, 1] [ −5, 5] [A − 2, C + 2] [ −1, 1] n.a.
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
Panel A: Probability of Non-impairment ( N = 6, 128, DV: Non-impairment Dummy)
CAR −0.020 −0.008 0.089** 0.082 0.080 Controls Controls
(0.105) (0.081) (0.040) (0.083) (0.089) only only
Controls — — — Char Year, Ind, Char Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 0.000 0.000 0.002 0.036 0.088 0.036 0.088
Panel B: Short-term Abnormal ROA ( N = 28, 710, DV: Short-term Abnormal ROA)
CAR 0.004 −0.001 0.009** 0.019 0.019* Controls Controls
(0.012) (0.006) (0.003) (0.011) (0.010) only only
Controls — — — Char Year, Ind, Char Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.026 0.078 0.026 0.078
Panel C: Long-term Abnormal ROA ( N = 22, 577, DV: Long-term Abnormal ROA)
CAR −0.015 −0.004 0.004 0.001 −0.002 Controls Controls
(0.014) (0.007) (0.003) (0.012) (0.012) only only
Controls — — — Char Year, Ind, Char Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.034 0.109 0.034 0.109
Panel D: Probability of Completion ( N = 39, 585, DV: Completion Dummy)
CAR 0.048* 0.031* — 0.050** 0.041** Controls Controls
(0.023) (0.014) (0.019) (0.016) only only
Controls — — — Char Year, Ind, Char Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 0.000 0.000 — 0.147 0.153 0.147 0.153
a set of dummy variables for stock-only, mixed-payment, diversifying, competed, hostile, and
public target deals.
Columns (1)–(3) of the first three panels of Table II show that the relationship between
CAR and outcomes is weak. For non-impairment and short- and long-term abnormal ROA
outcomes, three- and 11-day CARs are never statistically significant. CAR is statistically
significant in two regressions when a longer CAR window is used. Still, the economic sig-
18
nificance is low: for example, in Column (3) of Panel A, for every one percentage point
reduction in CAR, the probability of impairment increases by 0.09%. (Compared with the
14.80% unconditional probability of impairment for the sample, the point estimate repre-
sents less than a one-basis-point increase.) 19 Since the mean time to close a deal is 74 days,
CAR measured over the period of announcement to completion, on average, includes more
than 10 weeks for which other information (related to ROA or impairment likelihood) may
be released. 20
In Column (4) of Table II, we add characteristics known at the time of the announcement,
and in Column (5), we further saturate the model with year and industry-fixed effects. 21
Again, in these two columns, across all six regressions in Panels A to C, CAR is statistically
significant at the 10% level (and the correct sign) in only one regression. With the inclusion of
controls, for short-term abnormal ROA, the adjusted R 2 increases from 0.00% (Column (1))
to 2.6% when characteristics are added (Column (4)) to 7.8% when characteristics and year
and industry fixed effects are added (Column (5)). In Columns (6)–(7), we regress outcome
variables on characteristics rather than CAR. For example, Column (7) of Panels B and C
shows that year and industry controls and deal and firm characteristics alone can explain
7.8% and 10.9% of the variation in short- and long-term abnormal ROA, respectively; adding
CAR to the regression in Column (5) does not improve the adjusted R 2, indicating the
explanatory power comes entirely from the controls and not from CAR. 22
19In Column (3) of Panel B, an increase in CAR from the 25 th percentile to the 75 th percentile leads to
a 0.02 standard deviation increase in short-term abnormal ROA.
20Part of the information about the expected value created by the acquisition may already be impounded
in the price before the announcement due to leakage or anticipation of the acquisition (e.g., Schwert, 1996;
Bhattacharya et al., 2000; Mitchell et al., 2004; Betton et al., 2008; Edmans et al., 2012; Offenberg and
Officer, 2012; Wang, 2018; Bennett and Dam, 2019; Irani, 2020). In Internet Appendix Table IA.B1, we
follow Schipper and Thompson (1983b) and extend the measurement period of CAR to begin 41 days before
the announcement and end one day following the announcement. The results show that extending the
window does not change our inference about CAR’s lack of predictive ability.
21We consider the standard characteristics utilized in the M&A literature: the logarithm of market capital-
ization, leverage, free cash flow scaled by previous-year assets, Tobin’s Q, previous-quarter market-adjusted
stock returns, relative deal size, and dummies for stock-only consideration, mixed payment, diversifying
acquisition, hostile deal, competing bidders, and public targets.
22In Internet Appendix Table IA.B2, we show that the results are robust to using two alternative def-
initions of non-impairment that classify transactions that lack information as not mpaired (Panel A) or
19
Panel D of Table II reports the results of regressions of deal completion on acquirer
CAR. Similar to the results reported in Luo (2005) and Kau et al. (2008), we find that CAR
correlates with completion outcomes: the coefficient is the correct sign. It is significant at
the 10% level for the majority of the specifications. The results indicate that some managers
respond to signals generated by CAR. However, CAR has little economic significance: taking
Column (4), which has the largest point estimate in the panel, for every one percentage point
reduction in CAR, the probability of withdrawal increases by 0.05%. Compared with the
94.4% unconditional probability of completion for the sample, the point estimate represents
less than a one-basis-point increase. 23
To summarize, our in-sample tests show that CAR is uninformative about acquisition
outcomes. In most specifications, the relation between CAR and the acquisition outcome
is not statistically different from zero. When CAR is statistically significant, the economic
magnitude of CAR’s explanatory power is weak. Further, CAR does not seem to provide
additional information related to deal value creation over and above the information con-
tained in deal and firm characteristics. In Section 3.4, we formally assess whether deal and
firm characteristics, also known at the time of the deal announcement date, dominate CAR
as predictors.24
We also test whether CAR is better at predicting short-term or long-run outcomes, e.g.,
impairment within the first year as opposed to within five years, and abnormal ROA the
year following the completion date versus abnormal ROA five years following the completion
date. We rerun the earlier regressions (as in Table II) but define the dependent variable
as the outcome within a particular period relative to the deal’s effective date (up to five
years) for non-impairment and abnormal ROA, and relative to the announcement date for
impaired (Panel B) and to using industry-adjusted ROA rather than abnormal ROA (Panel C).
23In Panel D of Internet Appendix Table IA.B2, we include deals that still may be pending or for which
the outcome is unknown as the outcome variable, and we find the relation between CAR and completion is
no longer statistically significant.
24In Table II, short- and long-term abnormal ROA are measured three and six years following the deal
close, respectively. Due to the potential effects of firm attrition, in Internet Appendix Table IA.B3, we
adjust the abnormal ROA computation and calculate abnormal ROA by taking all years with ROA data
available up to six years after acquisition close. We then carry out weighted least squares (WLS) regressions
of abnormal ROA on acquirer cumulative abnormal returns (CAR), where the number of years of available
ROA data is used as the weight. The results presented in Internet Appendix Table IA.B3 are similar to the
main findings reported in Panels B and C of Table II.
20
completion. In Internet Appendix Figure IA.B1, we plot the coefficients on CAR for each
year.
Panels (a) and (b) of Internet Appendix Figure IA.B1 show that CAR performs bet-
ter on some short-term outcomes. Specifically, CAR’s coefficient is statistically significant
when considering one-year non-impairment and one- and two-year abnormal ROA. Yet the
practical impact of the coefficients remains minimal: a one-standard-deviation shift in CAR
(7.2% and 6.6% for Panels (a) and (b), respectively) correlates with a minute increase in the
short-term probability of non-impairment by 0.02 standard deviations, and a similar increase
in abnormal ROA of 0.03 standard deviations.
These results show that even though CAR performs better for short-term outcomes,
it is still an ineffective predictor of value creation. In particular, CAR’s meager economic
significance and lack of explanatory power for short-term outcomes render it an uninformative
indicator of value creation relative to the explanatory power of standard deal and acquirer
characteristics available at the time of the announcement.
Thus far, we have examined whether acquirer announcement returns can detect ex-post
value creation. We now assess whether the combined returns of the target and acquirer,
which reflect total expected synergy gains (as opposed to the division of synergy gains), can
predict outcomes. We zoom in on the subsample of transactions with public targets (which
represents 15%–18% of the non-impairment, abnormal ROA, and completion samples) and
compute combined dollar gains by summing the product of acquirer CAR and acquirer
market capitalization in the year prior to the deal announcement date and the product of
target CAR and target market capitalization in the year prior to the deal announcement. We
compute combined percentage returns by dividing combined dollar gains by the sum of the
acquirer and target market capitalizations. The results for combined CAR[−1, 1] are reported
in Internet Appendix Table IA.B4. The results are similar to those reported in Table II: the
coefficient on combined CAR is not statistically significant when non-impairment and short-
and long-term abnormal ROA are the outcome variables and is statistically significant when
completion is the outcome variable but, again, with low economic significance.
C. In-sample Tests: By Subsample
Given that CAR has no material explanatory power over outcomes in the universe of
acquisition announcements, we try to find the “golden subset,” i.e., a subsample in which
CAR has a stronger correlation with acquisition outcomes.
21
C.1. Subsamples by Time Periods
Figure 3, Panels (a)–(d) show the coefficient and 95% confidence intervals for regressions
of outcomes on CAR based on the specification in Table II, Column (5), for each of the
four decades in our sample. Panel (a) shows that the coefficient on CAR in regressions of
non-impairment on CAR is insignificant in the 2003–2010 and 2011–2018 periods. Panel (b)
shows that when short-term abnormal ROA is the outcome variable, CAR is significant (and
the correct sign) at the 5% level for the 1980–1990 period; however, it is not statistically
significant (and in some periods has the wrong sign) in the 1991–2000, 2001–2010, and
2011–2018 periods. Panel (c) shows that when long-term abnormal ROA is the outcome
variable, CAR is not statistically significant (and in two periods has the wrong sign) for all
four subperiods. Similarly, Panel (d) shows that CAR correlates with completion for only
one of the four subperiods. This result contrasts with the statistically significant (at the 5%
level) and positive (but economically weak) relation between CAR and completion reported
in Table II.
C.2. Subsamples by Industries
We also split the sample by industries. Internet Appendix Figure IA.B2 replicates Ta-
ble II, Column (5), by Fama-French 12 industry classifications and reports the coefficients
on CAR and 95% confidence intervals. Across 48 regressions (4 outcome variables × 12
industries), the coefficient on CAR is the correct sign and statistically significant at the
5% level for only four regressions. Although CAR correlates with some outcomes in a few
select industries, importantly, for these select industries, CAR does not correlate with all
outcomes. Like the time period results, the correlation between CAR and completion rates
(Panel (d)) is the correct sign and statistically significant for only one of the 12 industries.
Again, this result indicates that the relationship between the withdrawal decision and CAR
is economically weak.
C.3. Subsamples by Deal and Acquirer Characteristics
We further consider whether a particular set of deal or acquirer firm characteristics drive
the lack of relation between outcomes and CAR. For example, the existing literature has
discussed anticipation (e.g., serial acquirers), new information on acquiring firm valuation
(e.g., stock or diversifying deals), difficulty in assessing value creation due to lack of infor-
mation (e.g., private and high-tech targets, and small deals), or price pressure from merger
arbitrageurs (e.g., public targets) as potential explanations for the lack of relation.
22
Figure 3. Acquirer CAR and Acquisition Outcomes: By Decade
This figure plots the coefficients and 95% confidence intervals for regressions of outcomes on CAR based on the
specification in Table II, Column (5), for each of the four decades in our sample (except for non-impairment,
which we can only determine for two decades due to data limitations). Panels (a), (b), (c), and (d) use
non-impairment, short-term abnormal ROA, long-term abnormal ROA, and completion, respectively, as the
key independent variables. The red dots represent the point estimates, and the light red shading represents
95% confidence intervals.
2003–2010 2011–2018
−0.4
−0.2
0
0.2
0.4
Subsample period
CAR[−1, 1]
(a) Non-impairment
1980–1990 1991–2000 2001–2010 2011–2018
−0.4
−0.2
0
0.2
0.4
Subsample period
CAR[−1, 1]
(b) Short-term abnormal ROA
1980–1990 1991–2000 2001–2010 2011–2018
−0.4
−0.2
0
0.2
0.4
Subsample period
CAR[−1, 1]
(c) Long-term abnormal ROA
1980–1990 1991–2000 2001–2010 2011–2018
−0.4
−0.2
0
0.2
0.4
Subsample period
CAR[−1, 1]
(d) Completion
In Internet Appendix Table IA.B5, we replicate Table II, Column (5), for 29 subsam-
ples based on the deal and acquirer characteristics used in Table II, Column (5), as well as
dummy variables for serial acquirers and high-tech targets. 25 Across 116 regressions (4 out-
come variables × 29 subsamples), the coefficient on CAR is the correct sign and statistically
25The deal characteristics we consider are the target’s public status, form of payment (stock, cash, mix),
diversifying, competitive, hostile, relative size, and high-tech. The acquirer characteristics we consider are
serial acquirer, market capitalization, Tobin’s Q, past returns, free cash flow, and leverage, defined using
either a dummy variable or above/below median values. We include serial acquirers who made more than
one deal in a five-year window to capture potential anticipation. We include a high-tech dummy as Luo
(2005) finds that the relation between CAR and completion is related to high-tech industry classification.
We obtain the high-tech dummy from SDC.
23
significant at the 5% level for only 19 regressions. Of more importance is whether CAR’s
performance improves systematically in particular subsamples: in only five subsamples does
CAR achieve statistical significance for two of the four outcome variables, and in no subsam-
ple does CAR achieve statistical significance for three or more outcome variables. Overall,
the results indicate, to the extent that characteristics correlate with potential explanations
for CAR’s lack of explanatory power, these particular subsamples do not drive the result. 26
C.4. Brute Force Subsamples by Characteristic Combinations
Particular combinations of deal or acquirer firm characteristics may drive the lack of
relation between outcomes and CAR. We, therefore, allow the interaction of characteris-
tics. Following the same approach as in the previous subsection, we create the following 10
dummy variables based on the characteristics: the log of market capitalization, leverage, free
cash flow scaled by lagged assets, Tobin’s Q, previous-quarter market-adjusted stock returns,
relative deal size, cash-payment, diversifying, serial, and public target deals. If the charac-
teristic is continuous, we create the dummy variable by splitting the sample at the median.
We then form subsamples based on all of the unique interactions of these variables and retain
subsamples with at least 30 observations. We then split the sample into two time periods,
and, for each subsample and time period, we regress outcomes on CAR[ −1, 1] and record
the corresponding t-statistic. The results are reported in Internet Appendix Table IA.B6.
We report the number of transactions with a t-statistic greater than two, less than minus
two, or with an absolute value less than two for both periods. Taking Panel A as an ex-
ample, for non-impairment, we run 22,298 regressions and find that only 5% of transactions
(1, 091/22, 298) have the correct sign and a t-static of at least two in the first period, and
only 3% (735 /22, 298) do in the second period. Furthermore, only 0.26% (59 /22, 298) have
the correct sign and statistical significance in both periods. We draw similar conclusions
using the other three outcome variables.
To summarize, even with extensive data mining, we cannot locate a sample for which CAR
26Goodwill impairment tests are performed at the reporting unit level. When several targets operate
under a single reporting unit, operating performance improvements by one target may obscure the poor
operating performance of the failed acquisition, thereby stalling goodwill impairment. For acquisitions that
are large relative to the acquirer’s size, it is less likely that other businesses can hide value reductions in the
target. In Internet Appendix Table IA.B5, the coefficient on CAR remains insignificant when we zoom in
on the sample of acquisitions that are relatively large in size. Further, we focus on extreme impairments,
because such large value destruction is difficult to mask.
24
consistently captures outcomes. We conclude that the lack of relation between outcomes
and CAR is systematic and not driven by a particular time period (e.g., the financial crisis),
industry, or combination of deal and acquirer characteristics.
D. Out-of-sample Tests: CAR versus Characteristics
Next, we compare the ability of CAR versus characteristics-based models to predict deal
and acquirer outcomes in out-of-sample settings.
We conduct out-of-sample tests by analyzing the ability of characteristics and CAR to
predict outcomes in a second period, which was not used to estimate the model’s parameters.
Our analysis compares the performance of two “prediction models.” First, we estimate a
CAR-only OLS regression model that uses our transaction- and firm-level ex-post outcome
measures as the dependent variable and CAR as the independent variable. Second, we
estimate a characteristics-only OLS regression model that uses our transaction- and firm-
level ex-post outcome measures as the dependent variable and the characteristics used in
Column (7) of Table II as independent variables. (Note that we do not include industry
and year controls.) For regressions with non-impairment as the outcome variable, we use
the 2003–2010 period to estimate coefficients and predict the probability of transaction
impairment within five years for the 2011–2018 period. For regressions with abnormal ROA
and completion as outcome variables, we use the 1980–2000 period to estimate coefficients
and predict outcomes for the 2001–2018 period.
We next compare the quality of the predictions made by CAR and the characteristics-
based model out-of-sample. We present the results in Table III. Panel A shows that the
predicted outcome by CAR is not correlated with the realizations of non-impairment, short-
term abnormal ROA, or long-term abnormal ROA (Columns (1), (3), and (5), respectively).
In contrast, the predicted outcome by the characteristics-based model is positive (the correct
direction) and significant at the 1% confidence level for all three outcomes (Columns (2),
(4), and (6)).
Similar to the results reported in Table II, CAR predicts completion outcomes better
than non-impairment and abnormal ROA outcomes. The coefficient on CAR in Column (7)
of Panel A of Table III is the correct sign and is significant at the 5% confidence level.
However, the result is economically weak: when the probability of completion predicted
by CAR goes from the 25 th percentile to the 75 th percentile, the likelihood of completion
increases by 0.3%. The coefficient on the prediction based on characteristics is statistically
significant at the 1% level and economically significant: when the predicted probability of
deal completion by characteristics goes from the 25 th percentile to the 75 th percentile, the
25
Table III. Out-of-sample: Predicted versus Realized Outcomes
We first estimate OLS regressions of deal outcome measures on CAR[ −1, 1] only and characteristics only
using only the first half of transactions in each sample as a fit period to estimate coefficients. We then
use the parameter estimates from this first half to predict outcomes in the second half of each sample.
In Panel A, we assess the correlation between realized outcomes and predicted outcomes produced by the
CAR-only model (Columns (1), (3), (5), (7)) and the characteristics-only model (Columns (2), (4), (6), (8)).
In Panel B, we assess the correlation between the predicted outcome by the characteristics-only model and
acquirer CAR. Standard errors are reported in parentheses below the coefficients. ***, **, and * indicate
statistical significance at the 1%, 5%, and 10% level, respectively.
Panel A: Predicted versus Realized Outcomes
Dependent variable: Realized Outcome
Non-impairment ST abROA LT abROA Completion
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8)
Predicted based 26.039 −0.855 6.573 1.090**
on CAR (30.177) (1.031) (4.985) (0.404)
Predicted based 0.708*** 1.338*** 1.188*** 0.995***
on characteristics (0.138) (0.368) (0.228) (0.059)
Observations 2,862 2,862 14,358 14,358 10,713 10,713 18,014 18,014
Adjusted R2 0.000 0.027 0.000 0.039 0.000 0.041 0.000 0.148
Panel B: Is CAR Correlated with the “Predictable” Component of Outcomes?
Dependent variable: Predicted Outcome by a Characteristics Model
Non-impairment ST abROA LT abROA Completion
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8)
CAR[−1, 1] −0.104*** −0.014*** −0.010*** −0.008
(0.005) (0.001) (0.003) (0.017)
CAR[−5, 5] −0.078*** −0.009*** −0.008*** −0.011
(0.009) (0.002) (0.003) (0.008)
Observations 2,862 2,862 14,358 14,358 10,713 10,713 18,014 18,014
Adjusted R2 0.010 0.009 0.005 0.006 0.001 0.002 0.000 0.000
likelihood of completion increases by 6.0%.
Our analysis so far has identified a set of characteristics that are useful in predicting
acquisition outcomes out-of-sample. When acquisitions are announced, is the announcement
CAR correlated with the out-of-sample characteristics-based prediction (which we already
know is reliable)? We investigate this issue in Panel B of Table III, which reports results for
regressions of the predicted outcome by the characteristics-only model on acquirer CAR. Re-
sults show that acquirer CAR in the later sample is either not correlated with the predictable
part of acquisition outcomes (Columns (7)–(8)) or has the wrong sign (Columns (1)–(6)).
In Figure 4, we present out-of-sample tests graphically, similar in spirit to the tests
reported in Table III. We estimate OLS outcome models on CAR or characteristics for
26
the transaction-level failure measures (non-impairment and completion). We then use the
coefficients estimated in the first half of the sample to estimate the predicted probability
decile in the second half of the sample. Then, we report the fraction of transactions with
non-impairment and deal completion rates for each predicted probability decile. Similarly,
for the abnormal ROA outcome variables, we estimate OLS models of outcomes on CAR
or characteristics. We again use the coefficients estimated in the first half of the sample to
estimate the predicted outcome decile in the second half of the sample. Then, we report the
realized outcome decile for each predicted outcome decile.
Focusing first on non-impairment, if the model has predictive power, then the realized
non-impairment rate should increase monotonically as we move from decile 1 (low predicted
probability) to decile 10 (high predicted probability). Alternatively, if the model lacks pre-
dictive power, the realized non-impairment rate should be close to 89% (the unconditional
non-impairment rate in the second half of the sample) for all deciles. In Panel (a), we see
little evidence of significant predictive power for the CAR-only model. The realized non-
impairment rate is non-monotonic as we move from decile 1 to 10. Moreover, realized non-
impairment rates are close to 89% for many deciles, and there are reduced non-impairment
rates for the highest CAR deciles. In contrast, Panel (b), the characteristics-only model,
shows a stable positive upward trend, indicating that deciles with higher predicted non-
impairment are associated with a higher fraction of realized non-impairment rates.
The results for the firm-level abnormal ROA outcome variables are generally similar.
In Panels (c) and (e)—the CAR-only model—realized outcome deciles vary little from the
unconditional average decile in the second half of the sample (as indicated by the dashed line)
across predicted outcome deciles. In contrast, Panels (d) and (f)—the characteristics-only
model—show an upward trend in realized outcome deciles as we move from low predicted to
high predicted deciles.
In terms of completion (Panels (g) and (h)), for the characteristics-only model, realized
completion is 99.0% for the highest predicted completion decile, and 81.6% for the lowest; for
the CAR-only model, realized completion for the highest decile is 95.7% and for the lowest
decile is 93.3%.
In sum, the out-of-sample tests reiterate the conclusion from the earlier in-sample tests:
CAR has only very weak predictive power about acquisition outcomes, whereas acquisi-
tion outcomes can be predicted relatively well by characteristics known at the time of the
announcement.
These results relate to Ellahie et al. (2025), who develop a measure of merger and ac-
quisition quality (implied return-on-equity improvement; IRI) that quantifies the minimum
improvement in the acquirer’s return on equity (ROE) that the acquirer must generate over
27
Figure 4. Out-of-sample: Predicted versus Realized Outcomes
These figures report out-of-sample results. We use the first half of each sample to fit OLS regressions
that use non-impairment, short- and long-term abnormal ROA, and deal completion as outcome variables.
Panels (a), (c), (e), and (g) include only acquirer CAR[ −1, 1] as an independent variable. Panels (b), (d),
(f), and (h) include only deal and firm characteristics as the independent variable. Using the estimates, we
obtain predicted outcome deciles for the second half of each sample. For our transaction-level measures, for
each predicted probability decile, we report the fraction of transactions with realized success or completion.
We report the realized outcome decile for our firm-level measures for each predicted decile. The dashed line
indicates the unconditional realized frequency (for success and completion) and the unconditional realized
outcome decile (for short- and long-term abnormal ROA) for the second half of each sample. The shaded
portion represents the 95% confidence interval.
2 4 6 8 10
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
Predicted decile (CAR[−1,1])
Realized non-impairment
frequency
(a) Non-impairment: CAR[−1,1]
2 4 6 8 10
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
Predicted decile (Characteristics)
(b) Non-impairment: Characteristics
2 4 6 8 10
4
5
6
7
Predicted decile (CAR[−1,1])
Realized short-term
abnormal ROA decile
(c) Short-term abnormal ROA: CAR[−1,1]
2 4 6 8 10
4
5
6
7
Predicted decile (Characteristics)
(d) Short-term abnormal ROA: Characteristics
2 4 6 8 10
4
5
6
7
Predicted decile (CAR[−1,1])
Realized long-term
abnormal ROA decile
(e) Long-term abnormal ROA: CAR[−1,1]
2 4 6 8 10
4
5
6
7
Predicted decile (Characteristics)
(f) Long-term abnormal ROA: Characteristics
2 4 6 8 10
0.8
0.9
1
Predicted decile (CAR[−1,1])
Realized completion
frequency
(g) Completion: CAR[−1,1]
2 4 6 8 10
0.8
0.9
1
Predicted decile (Characteristics)
(h) Completion: Characteristics
28
the investment horizon to justify the acquisition price. 27 Using a sample of public targets,
they find that high IRI (constructed using transaction, accounting, and stock characteristics)
predicts worse acquirer performance in the three years following the deal and, similar to our
results, they relate their IRI measure to announcement returns and find that the information
content of IRI is not fully incorporated into stock returns around the announcement. We use
a large, comprehensive sample of acquisitions and show that a simple characteristics model
outperforms CAR in predicting acquisition outcomes.
E. Validation of Outcome Variables
Our earlier tests of the hypothesis that acquirer announcement returns (CAR) capture
value creation rely on the assumption that the ex-post value creation measures we employ
effectively represent realized value creation. These measures (or their variations)—non-
impairment likelihood, abnormal ROA, and deal completion rates—have been extensively
used in the literature and are correlated with one another despite originating from different
sources. Yet these measures, like CAR, are subject to similar critiques of validity: these
proxies themselves may not fully capture the value generated by the acquisitions.
Our analyses thus far show that CAR cannot predict our outcome variables, but a simple
benchmark measure using characteristics, also known at the time of the announcement can
reasonably predict our value creation proxies. To further validate our ex-post value creation
measures, we relate these predicted outcomes (with a particular focus on outcomes predicted
by characteristics) to long-term stock returns following the acquisition announcement. If
characteristics (or CAR) correlate with outcome proxies, and these ex-post measures suf-
ficiently capture value creation, then predicted outcomes based on these measures should
correlate with long-term returns, providing additional evidence of their validity.
For each announcement year in our sample, we estimate OLS regressions of the proba-
bility of non-impairment, short-term and long-term abnormal ROA, and the likelihood of
deal completion on the set of deal and acquirer characteristics (or on CAR). 28 Using each
27Notably, the criterion of ROE improvement (synonymous with earnings-per-share accretion) does not
necessarily align with positive-NPV deals (Ben-David and Chinco, 2023). Negative-NPV deals can result in
ROE improvements, while positive-NPV deals may lead to ROE deterioration. Empirical evidence further
indicates that CAR tends to be positively correlated with earnings-per-share accretion (Dasgupta et al.,
2024).
28To be specific, we estimate Table II, Columns (4) and (6), for CAR and deal characteristics regressions,
respectively.
29
Table IV. Long-term Returns and Predicted Outcomes
This table reports 60-month equal-weighted DGTW-adjusted returns computed beginning the month-end of
the deal announcement date. In Columns (1)–(4), we estimate yearly OLS regressions of the probability of
non-impairment, short-term and long-term abnormal ROA, and the probability of completion, respectively,
on firm and deal characteristics. We then compute the imputed outcome for each year and sort predicted
values into 10 outcome deciles. We report the equal-weighted 60-month DGTW-adjusted BHAR for acquirers
in the bottom-three and top-three deciles and the p-value for the difference test between the top and bottom
deciles. The characteristics include the log of market capitalization, leverage and free cash flow scaled
by lagged assets, Tobin’s Q, previous-quarter market-adjusted stock returns, relative deal size, and a set of
dummy variables for stock-only, mixed-payment, diversifying, competed, hostile, and public target deals. We
measure firm-level characteristics in the year before the deal announcement. Columns (5)–(8) are computed
analogously, except we use CAR[ −1, 1] to predict outcomes.
Prediction model: Characteristics-only Model CAR-only Model
Predicted variable: abnormal ROA abnormal ROA
Non-impair ST LT Completion Non-impair ST LT Completion
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8)
Top 3 deciles −2.7% −5.1% −3.8% −5.0% −6.9% −10.9% −8.9% −10.9%
Bottom 3 deciles −12.0% −15.8% −13.2% −12.9% −6.9% −13.7% −8.1% −13.7%
Difference 9.2% 10.7% 9.4% 7.9% 0.1% 2.8% −0.8% 2.8%
p-value 0.005 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.986 0.158 0.726 0.089
transaction’s predicted outcome from these regressions, we sort the predicted values into
deciles based on the announcement year. We then compute DGTW-adjusted buy-and-hold
abnormal returns (BHAR) over 60 months starting from the month before the announcement
date for the top 30% (top three deciles) and bottom 30% (bottom three deciles) of acquirers
based on the predicted outcomes.
Table IV, Columns (1)–(4), summarize returns for predicted outcomes by characteris-
tics for the top and bottom three deciles. Column (1) shows that deals in the top three
deciles with the highest predicted non-impairment likelihood earn average abnormal returns
of −2.7% over five years. In comparison, deals in the bottom three deciles earn average
returns of −12.0%. The difference of 9 .2% is statistically significant. Similarly, average
returns are 9 .4% to 10.7% higher for deals in the top three deciles of predicted short-term
and long-term abnormal ROA by characteristics relative to the bottom three deciles, with
differences statistically significant at the 1% level (Columns (2)–(3)).
We also focus on completion outcomes. We estimate the likelihood of deal comple-
tion based on characteristics (or CAR) for each announcement year to compute predicted
outcomes, sort these into deciles, and retain only completed deals. 29 In Column (4), the
29Since this analysis is conditional on completion, the bottom three deciles represent deals that are
30
difference in DGTW-adjusted returns between the top and bottom three deciles is 7 .9%,
again statistically significant at the 1% level.
These results indicate that the return spread generated by characteristics is at least
7% across all four outcome variables. This analysis suggests that characteristics not only
correlate with our ex-post outcomes (e.g., non-impairment, abnormal ROA, completion)
but also that predicted ex-post outcomes based on characteristics correlate with long-term
returns around the announcement period. The significant relationship between predicted
outcomes and long-term returns provides additional validation for our ex-post value creation
proxies.
For completeness, we conduct similar tests using CAR instead of characteristics in
Columns (5)–(8). We regress our four outcome measures on CAR for each announcement
year and sort the predicted values into deciles. Consistent with our earlier findings—which
show that CAR does not correlate with ex-post outcomes—we find that outcomes predicted
by CAR also do not correlate with long-term returns. Sorting on CAR’s predictions, unlike
the characteristics model, does not generate a return spread. Given the strong performance
of the characteristics-based model and the additional validation of our ex-post measures
through their association with long-term returns, this result further confirms that CAR fails
to capture information known at the time of the announcement.
In summary, while recognizing the potential limitations of our ex-post value creation
measures, we provide evidence supporting their validity through their significant correlation
with long-term stock returns. Our analysis demonstrates that a benchmark model based
on observable deal and acquirer characteristics effectively predicts value creation and that
these predicted outcomes correlate with long-term returns. In contrast, CAR is unable to
generate these correlations. Therefore, relying solely on CAR to assess expected acquisition
value creation may be misleading. Our findings support using characteristics-based models
as more reliable ex-ante measures of potential value creation in acquisitions.
F. Dampening Effects on CAR
The analyses thus far have measured the performance of announcement returns by testing
the correlation between ex-post outcomes (e.g., non-impairment and abnormal ROA) and
CAR for the sample of completed deals. These analyses implicitly assume that (a) the deal
completed despite characteristics suggesting lower value creation relative to other deals announced in the
same year. We exclude canceled deals from this analysis due to the ambiguity in their expected returns;
acquirers with canceled negative CAR transactions may generate positive returns following the transaction
process.
31
is a surprise, i.e., there are no anticipation effects; (b) the deal outcome is known, i.e., there
are no truncation effects from deal completion uncertainty; (c) completed deals are a random
sample of those announced, i.e., there are no selection effects; and (d) ex-post outcomes are
unaffected by management that heeds announcement returns, i.e., there are no feedback
effects. Anticipation, truncation, selection, and feedback would largely have a dampening
effect on CAR, thus diminishing the observed relation between CAR and outcomes. In this
section, we assess the importance of each and whether these factors can explain CAR’s failure
to capture outcomes.
F.1. Anticipation
Leakage of acquisition intentions has been widely documented in the literature. For ex-
ample, Betton et al. (2014) find substantial run-ups (averaging 7%) in acquirers’ stock prices
before the deal announcement. Bid anticipation has also been documented, particularly for
serial acquirers and acquirers in industries undergoing significant consolidations. 30
As a first pass to address the possibility that deal anticipation distorts our results, we ex-
tend CAR’s measurement window from CAR[−1, 1] to CAR[−41, 1]. The results in Internet
Appendix Table IA.B1 repeat the main tests and show that extending CAR’s measurement
window does not alter the main results: CAR is not meaningfully correlated with merger
outcomes. However, a “one-size-fits-all” approach to extending the window may be too
coarse. Deals vary in the degree of anticipation: some announcements surprise investors,
while others are old news. Deals also vary in the timing of anticipation news: some deals
may be leaked in the weeks prior to the announcement, and others may be anticipated years
prior to the announcement.
The ideal empirical setting would be to designate a custom measurement window date
and size for each announcement that captures the period investors assess the deal. Because it
is practically impossible to have deal-tailored windows, we resort to a second-best approach
in which we remove transactions likely anticipated by investors and retain transactions that
were more likely surprises to investors.
To identify highly anticipated announcements, we use four criteria, drawing on different
data sources to generate various measures of anticipation. First, we classify deals as having
“explicit anticipation” if they meet specific conditions: we collect M&A Rumors and Discus-
sions data from S&P Capital IQ, retaining headlines mentioning both the acquirer and target
30See Asquith et al. (1983), Schipper and Thompson (1983a), Malatesta and Thompson (1985), Betton
and Eckbo (2000), Song and Walkling (2000), Fuller et al. (2002), Betton et al. (2008), Cai et al. (2011),
and Wang (2018).
32
that appear up to three years before the deal announcement. Additionally, we use SDC data
to include deals flagged as rumors. Combined, these sources identify 1,047 announcements of
completed and withdrawn deals. 31 Second, we identify “potential anticipation” deals using
less stringent criteria by requiring only either the acquirer or target to be mentioned in the
M&A Rumors and Discussions headlines, resulting in 3,681 announcements of completed
and withdrawn deals. 32 Third, we consider deals by repeat acquirers—those announcing at
least one acquisition in the previous five years—as potentially anticipated, capturing 28,266
announcements of completed and withdrawn deals. 33 Finally, we follow Cai et al. (2011) in
identifying “initial” industry bids, defined as bids preceded by a long interval since the last
industry bid, as these are less likely to be anticipated. We consider two intervals. First, we
classify deals as “potentially anticipated” if they occur within one year of another deal in
the same four-digit SIC industry. Second, we consider a more restrictive flag and classify
deals as “potentially anticipated” if they occur within six months of another deal in the same
four-digit SIC industry.34
In Internet Appendix Table IA.B7, we replicate Table II, Column (5), for the subsam-
ples that exclude the deals flagged as explicitly or potentially anticipated (e.g., deals where
NPV expectations may already be reflected in acquirers’ valuations). Regardless of sample
definition, CAR continues to underperform across all subsamples.
We also take a brute-force approach by examining returns leading up to the announce-
ments as a measure of anticipation. In Internet Appendix Table IA.B8, Panel A, we sort
deals into three terciles based on the run-up CAR[ −41, −2]: tercile 1 includes announce-
ments with the most negative returns, and tercile 3 includes those with significant run-ups.
In Panel B, we replicate Table II, Column (5), and focus on tercile 2, which lacks substantial
run-ups and presumably reflects the least anticipation. The coefficients on CAR are not sta-
tistically significant in any of the regressions, suggesting that even when isolating moderate
run-ups, we do not identify a consistently better-performing CAR.
31This sample represents 3%–8% of the non-impairment and abnormal ROA samples.
32This sample represents 10%–21% of the non-impairment and abnormal ROA samples.
33This sample represents 48%–72% of the non-impairment and abnormal ROA samples.
34The one-year interval sample represents 92%–95% of the non-impairment and abnormal ROA samples,
and the six-month interval sample represents 84%–90% of the non-impairment and abnormal ROA samples.
Cai et al. (2011) identifies 82% of deals as anticipated, but they use a smaller sample that ends in 2009 and
excludes financial firms.
33
F.2. Truncation, Selection, and Feedback
Announcement returns may not capture the full effect of market expectations of deal
value if there exists uncertainty about deal completion (“truncation effect”). Further, if
announcement returns reflect market expectations of deal value absent any managerial re-
sponse, they need not correlate with ex-post outcomes that do reflect a managerial response.
If managers learn from CAR and take corrective action, the correlation between CAR and
ex-post outcomes will be affected. This effect could present via a “selection effect” due to
the elimination of withdrawn bids or a “feedback effect” (Edmans et al., 2012, 2015) where
managers respond to CAR and effectively alter the outcome. For example, a manager who
observes a negative CAR may cancel the transaction or allocate more resources to increase
the chance of deal success. Conversely, following a positive CAR, a manager might decrease
the resources allocated toward completing and integrating the combined entity, leading to
higher chances of failure.
Truncation, selection, and feedback effects imply a correlation between CAR and with-
drawal rates, which we document both in-sample and out-of-sample, indicating that these
effects may partially explain CAR’s failure to capture outcomes. However, we caution that
this relation is economically weak with low explanatory and predictive power (Tables II
and III), lacking consistent results across periods (Figure 3) and subsamples (Internet Ap-
pendix Table IA.B5).
We assess the importance of truncation using out-of-sample tests that rely on the insight
that the likelihood of canceling a deal is predictable using acquirer and deal characteristics
(e.g., Luo, 2005; Betton et al., 2009; Wang, 2017). As shown in Table III and Figure 4,
characteristics predict deal completion reasonably well out-of-sample.
Using the first half of the sample, we regress the completion dummy on characteristics.
We then predict the cancellation probability for transactions in the second half of the sample.
We sort transactions based on their completion probabilities into three terciles, then repeat
the Table II tests for both the lowest tercile (low withdrawal probability) and the highest
tercile (high withdrawal probability).
Internet Appendix Table IA.B9 shows that CAR does not perform better for the sample
of transactions with a low cancellation probability—of the 21 regressions in Panels B, D,
and F, the coefficient on CAR is statistically significant for only one—than it does for the
sample of transactions with a high cancellation probability. Thus, truncation effects are not
likely to be the primary driver of the failure of CAR.
Although we cannot isolate the counterfactual (outcomes that do not reflect managerial
action), we assess the importance of the feedback effect and the related selection effect in two
ways. First, both effects imply a flattening of the relation between CAR and deal outcomes
34
for very negative CAR and an ambiguous relation for very positive CAR. We do not observe
the flattening for very negative CAR in Figures 2 and 4. Internet Appendix Table IA.B10
replicates Table II, Column (5), but removes CAR’s extreme top and bottom deciles. The
lack of correlation between CAR and outcomes persists for the remaining non-extreme eight
deciles.
The second test checks whether the feedback provided by CAR is useful. If that is the
case, “listening” to CAR from a long-term return perspective would be beneficial. We follow
Table IV and again report 60-month equal-weighted DGTW-adjusted returns in Table V.
We estimate OLS regressions of the completion probability on CAR (or characteristics) using
the early years of the sample before 2000. We then compute the imputed outcome for years
after 2001, and sort deals into deciles of the imputed outcome. In Columns (1) and (2),
we consider the returns to listening to characteristics that predict withdrawal (withdrawing
vs. completing transactions in the bottom three deciles) and the returns to listening to
characteristics that predict completion (completing vs. canceling transactions in the top
three deciles). In Columns (3) and (4), we consider the returns to listening to negative CAR
(withdrawing vs. completing transactions in the bottom three deciles) and the returns to
listening to positive CAR (completing vs. canceling transactions in the top three deciles).
The results in Table V indicate that listening to CAR results in losses. Panel C shows that
listening to negative CAR signals or withdrawing versus completing deals in the bottom three
deciles results in mean losses of 20% (i.e., Column (3): row (c) minus row (a)) and median
losses of 24% (i.e., Column (4): row (c) minus row (a)), whereas listening to negative signals
by characteristics (bottom 3 deciles of predicted completion) results in positive returns of 3%
(i.e., again row (c) minus row (a)). CAR performs better for positive signals (deals in the top
three deciles of completion probability by CAR): completing versus withdrawing generates
returns of 7%–15%; however, signals generated from characteristics produce higher returns
of 18%–23% (i.e., row (b) minus row (d)). The net effect of listening to CAR is −5% to
−17%, while the net effect of listening to characteristics is 21% to 26%.
Although selection and feedback effects are present, they are likely not the primary (or
only) driver of the lack of correlation between CAR and ex-post outcomes.
G. Which Deals Create Value?
Another way to investigate the forecasting ability of CAR is to consider the quality of
inferences regarding deal quality generated from announcement returns relative to ex-post
measures. To do so, we consider the “types” of transactions (defined by deal, target, or
acquirer characteristics) that CAR predicts will create or destroy the most value. We then
35
Table V. “Listening” to CAR
This table reports 60-month equal-weighted DGTW-adjusted portfolio returns computed starting from the
month-end of the deal announcement date. In Columns (1) and (2), we estimate OLS regressions of the
withdrawal probability on deal characteristics using the early years of the sample before 2000. We then
compute the imputed outcome for years after 2001. Columns (3) and (4) are computed analogously, except
we use the CAR[ −1, 1] to predict outcomes. In Panels A and B, we limit the sample to completed and
withdrawn deals, respectively, and then sort predicted values into outcome deciles. We report the equal-
weighted 60-month DGTW-adjusted mean (median) BHAR for acquirers in the bottom three and top three
deciles. Panel C reports the differences between the different signals and the overall return if one consistently
“listened” to CAR.
60-month DGTW-adjusted BHAR
Prediction model: Characteristics CAR
Mean Median Mean Median
(1) (2) (3) (4)
Panel A: Completed Deals
(a) Top 3 deciles of withdrawal prediction −12% −28% −15% −26%
(b) Bottom 3 deciles of withdrawal prediction 1% −7% −1% −21%
Panel B: Withdrawn Deals
(c) Top 3 deciles of withdrawal prediction −9% −25% −35% −50%
(d) Bottom 3 deciles of withdrawal prediction −17% −30% −16% −28%
Panel C: “Listening to CAR”
(c)−(a) Listened to withdrawal signal (canceled) vs. not 3% 3% −20% −24%
(b)−(d) Listened to signal not to withdraw (completed) vs. not 18% 23% 15% 7%
((c)−(a)) + ((b) −(d)) Consistently listened 21% 26% −5% −17%
relate these deal types to realized outcomes. For example, if CAR for the average public
target is negative, one might infer that acquiring a typical public target destroys value. How
reliable are these inferences? We address this question in multiple ways.
G.1. Univariate Tests: One Characteristic at a Time
We run 65 univariate regressions. We use five dependent variables: CAR, non-
impairment, short- and long-term abnormal ROA, and completion. Each of these is re-
gressed against one of 13 independent variables: various deal and firm characteristics. We,
thus, obtain 65 coefficients (13 × 5 outcomes). All acquirer characteristics are computed
before the announcement. Leverage, free cash flows, assets, and Tobin’s Q are computed the
year before the announcement. Past returns are computed in the quarter and month before
36
the announcement.35
We standardize the 65 coefficients and present them in Figure 5. The coefficients are
sorted by characteristics that predict the lowest CAR (large acquirer, public target, large
deal size, stock-only) to those that predict the highest CAR (large relative size, mixed
payment, high leverage). 36 In general, the relations between CAR and the characteristics
we document match those found in earlier studies exploring this relation, although often in
different periods and using different samples.
Two important inferences can be drawn from Figure 5. First, the coefficients of the four
ex-post outcomes correlate despite originating from different sources. This result implies
that characteristics associated with a high likelihood of success (e.g., large acquirer size) are
also associated with high ex-post performance measures, as indicated by low impairment
outcomes, high short-term and long-term abnormal ROA, and high completion rates. Simi-
larly, characteristics associated with a low likelihood of success (e.g., diversifying and large
relative size) are also associated with poor ex-post performance measures. This fact provides
further validation of our ex-post proxies for acquisition quality.
Second, and strikingly, Figure 5 shows no association in sign or relative importance
between the characteristics for which CAR predicts failure or success and the characteristics
that are associated with failure or success ex-post. For example, transactions with large
acquirer size are associated with low CARs but are not associated with an increased rate
of impairment, withdrawal, or low abnormal ROA; transactions with large relative size are
associated with high CARs but are not associated with higher non-impairment or completion
or abnormal ROA.
Overall, on a univariate basis, there is often a mismatch between the types of deals and
acquirers predicted to do well or to destroy value by CAR and the ex-post realizations of
these deal types. The results in this section show that the inferences about the quality of
35This test also helps address an errors-in-variables critique. Specifically, our main tests regress ex-
post outcomes on announcement returns. Standard regression analysis assumes that regressors are observed
without noise. CAR, however, could be noisy and hence may lead to attenuated coefficients—an econometric
issue often referred to as errors-in-variables in the literature. However, in this section, CAR is the dependent
rather than the independent variable.
36As discussed in Section II, the sample size varies across ex-post outcome measures due to data avail-
ability. We report the coefficients for regressions when CAR is the dependent variable using the short-term
abnormal ROA sample. The results are nearly identical when we use the samples associated with our three
other outcome variables.
37
Figure 5. Correlation of CAR and Outcomes with Characteristics
The bar chart shows the standardized coefficients for regressions in which the dependent variable is CAR, non-
impairment, short- and long-term abnormal ROA, or completion on the various deal and firm characteristics.
Each characteristic enters each regression individually (univariate regressions). The red bars indicate the
standardized coefficients from regressions in which CAR is the dependent variable, and the four lighter bars
indicate regressions for which non-impairment, short- and long-term abnormal ROA, and completion are the
dependent variables. The patterned portion of the bars indicates a coefficient larger than 1.96 standard errors
of the standardized coefficient, i.e., statistically significant at least at the 5% level. All acquirer characteristics
are computed before the announcement. Leverage, free cash flows (FCF), assets, and Tobin’s Q are computed
the year before the announcement. Past returns are computed in the quarter before the announcement.
−0.3 −0.25 −0.2 −0.15 −0.1 −0.05 0 0.05 0.1 0.15 0.2 0.25 0.3
Acquirer size
Public target
Deal size
Stock only
FCF/Assets
Tobin’s Q
Hostile
Past return
Diversifying
Competed
Debt/Assets
Mixed payment
Relative size
Standardized coefficient of CAR or ex-post performance
CAR
Non-impairment
ST abROA
LT abROA
Completion
Debt/Assets
Relative size
Mixed payment
acquisition decisions generated by CAR are inconsistent with those generated from ex-post
measures.
G.2. Combining CAR-based Inferences into a Single Predictor
We further consider the combination of characteristics often used in the M&A literature.
Earlier studies found that announcement returns are persistently associated with particular
characteristics; hence, researchers concluded that deals with specific characteristics create
value for acquirers, on average, while others destroy value.
We construct a single measure of CAR-predicted deal success based on characteristics. We
first predict CAR by regressing acquirer CAR on characteristics. The in-sample predicted
38
Figure 6. CAR-based Predictors versus Characteristics-based Predictors
We utilize the coefficients from a regression of CAR on characteristics to obtain an in-sample predicted
CAR for the sample of completed transactions, i.e., a summary of what CAR would be given the set of
deal and acquirer characteristics. We then sort the predicted CAR into deciles. On the left-hand side
of the figure, for each predicted CAR decile, we report (solid red line) realized non-impairment frequency
(Panel (a)), average realized short- and long-term abnormal ROA (Panels (c) and (e), respectively), and
realized completion frequency (Panel (g)). The red shading indicates the 95% confidence intervals. Similarly,
we utilize the coefficients from regressions of ex-post outcomes on characteristics to obtain in-sample predicted
non-impairment, short-term abnormal ROA, long-term abnormal ROA, and completion. Then, we sort
predicted values into deciles, with results presented on the right-hand side of the figure. For each predicted
decile, we report (solid blue line) realized non-impairment frequency (Panel (b)), average realized short- and
long-term abnormal ROA (Panels (d) and (f), respectively), and realized completion frequency (Panel (h)).
The blue shading indicates the 95% confidence interval.
2 4 6 8 10
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
Predicted decile (CAR[−1,1])
Realized
non-impairment frequency
(a) Non-impairment; predicted CAR
2 4 6 8 10
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
Predicted decile (Outcome)
(b) Non-impairment; predicted outcome
2 4 6 8 10−0.04
−0.02
0
0.02
0.04
Predicted decile (CAR[−1,1])
Realized short-term
abnormal ROA
(c) Short-term abnormal ROA; predicted CAR
2 4 6 8 10−0.04
−0.02
0
0.02
0.04
Predicted decile (Outcome)
(d) Short-term abnormal ROA; predicted outcome
2 4 6 8 10−0.04
−0.02
0
0.02
0.04
Predicted decile (CAR[−1,1])
Realized long-term
abnormal ROA
(e) Long-term abnormal ROA; predicted CAR
2 4 6 8 10−0.04
−0.02
0
0.02
0.04
Predicted decile (Outcome)
(f) Long-term abnormal ROA; predicted outcome
2 4 6 8 10
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
Predicted decile (CAR[−1,1])
Realized
completion frequency
(g) Completion; predicted CAR
2 4 6 8 10
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
Predicted decile (Outcome)
(h) Completion; predicted outcome
39
CAR summarizes the associations of CAR with all of the regressors. We then sort the
predicted CAR into deciles such that the top (bottom) deciles contain transactions that
have characteristics associated with high (low) CAR, implying that, on average, they should
predict high- (low-) NPV transactions.
Our analyses use these predictive regressions to explore whether high-NPV transactions,
according to CAR, are associated with better ex-post outcomes. In the four panels on the
left-hand side of Figure 6, Panels (a), (c), (e), and (g), we present the ex-post outcomes for
predicted CAR deciles. Panel (a) shows that the rate of no goodwill impairment does not
vary among the first eight deciles and declines for the highest deciles of the combined CAR
predictor. In Panels (c) and (e), the sign is wrong: realized abnormal ROA declines from the
lowest to highest deciles of the combined CAR predictor. In Panel (g), realized completion
rates are lower for the lowest and highest deciles but do not vary across combined CAR
predictor deciles 3 to 9.
Next, we test whether characteristics do a better job of predicting ex-post outcomes.
We utilize the coefficients from regressions of ex-post outcomes on characteristics to obtain
in-sample predicted non-impairment, short-term abnormal ROA, long-term abnormal ROA,
and completion. Then, we sort predicted values into deciles. On the right-hand side of
Figure 6, for each predicted decile, we report realized non-impairment frequency (Panel (b)),
average realized abnormal ROA (Panels (d) and (f)), and average realized completion rates
(Panel (h)). All four panels show a clear positive slope, suggesting that characteristics are
good predictors of ex-post outcomes.
Our results indicate that CAR is not directly or indirectly associated with outcomes via
characteristics. These results contrast with the moderate ability of characteristics to predict
transaction- and firm-level acquisition outcomes.
H. Common Determinants of Acquisition Quality
Next, we zoom in on the most common determinants of acquisition quality discussed in
the literature (and taught in the classroom): the form of payment, the target’s status as
public or private, acquirer size, and relative transaction size. 37
We form 16 combinations of these characteristics (in their binary forms) and calculate
average CAR and average ex-post outcomes for transactions classified in each combination.
37For studies that link announcement returns to these characteristics, see, e.g., Travlos (1987), Eckbo
et al. (1990a), Morck et al. (1990), Chang (1998), Andrade et al. (2001), Fuller et al. (2002), Moeller et al.
(2004), Moeller et al. (2005), Faccio et al. (2006), Officer (2007), Harford et al. (2012), Eckbo et al. (2018),
and Bayazitova et al. (2020).
40
Table VI. Acquisition Outcomes and CAR, Grouped by Characteristics
This table reports the average of the acquisition outcome variables and CAR for acquisitions grouped by the
characteristics identified in the extant literature as being correlated with CAR. Rank is the average rank of
the four outcome variables. To facilitate interpretation, statistics within each column are color-coded from
red (signifying the worst performance) to green (signifying the best performance) for each measure.
Acquisition Characteristics Ex-post Outcomes
Cash Public Large Large Avg Non- ST LT Comp- Avg
Only Target Acquirer Relative Size CAR[ −1, 1] impairment abROA abROA letion Rank
Y 0.028 0.753 −0.008 −0.008 0.935 14
Y Y 0.022 0.818 −0.007 −0.010 0.973 11
Y Y 0.018 0.834 −0.006 −0.005 0.950 7
Y Y Y 0.018 0.791 −0.015 −0.010 0.818 16
Y Y Y 0.014 0.856 0.002 0.002 0.975 5
Y 0.010 0.874 −0.008 −0.010 0.989 6
Y Y 0.008 0.925 −0.002 −0.013 0.876 10
Y Y Y Y 0.007 0.823 0.002 0.005 0.804 8
0.004 0.821 −0.013 −0.012 0.981 12
Y Y 0.002 0.913 0.012 0.011 0.986 1
Y 0.002 0.919 0.004 0.004 0.979 3
Y Y Y 0.001 0.888 0.020 0.018 0.931 4
Y Y −0.003 0.953 0.008 0.009 0.938 2
Y −0.004 0.949 −0.014 −0.024 0.892 12
Y Y −0.011 0.849 −0.012 −0.011 0.789 15
Y Y Y −0.026 0.837 0.000 0.004 0.843 8
Table VI presents the results. The combinations are sorted by their average CARs. 38 To
facilitate interpretation, statistics within each column are color-coded from red (signifying
the worst performance) to green (signifying the best performance) for each measure.
Table VI shows no positive association between announcement returns and ex-post out-
comes. If anything, the association is often negative. The transactions ranked as having the
best performance according to CAR (2 .8%) have the following acquisition characteristics:
not limited to cash, private target, small acquirer, and large relative size. However, their
ex-post outcomes are the worst: only 75% of them do not impair (versus a sample mean of
85.2%), and their average short- and long-term abnormal ROA is −0.8% (versus a sample
mean of −0.2%). In contrast, the bottom half of the characteristic combinations according
to CAR (indicated by red shading) are often ranked in the top half of non-impairment and
ROA outcomes (as indicated by green shading). For completion, there does not appear to
be a negative relation between CAR and non-withdrawal rates, but high withdrawal rates
38As discussed in Section II, the sample size varies across ex-post outcome measures due to data avail-
ability. We report average CARs based on the short-term abnormal ROA sample. The results are nearly
identical when we sort CAR using the samples associated with our three other outcome variables.
41
(indicated by red shading) appear throughout the CAR distribution.
Notably, the types of deals indicated to be successful by our four ex-post measures are
largely correlated (particularly for non-impairment and ROA). Cash-only deals, deals with
a public target, deals in which the acquirer is not large, and large relative size deals destroy
value based on these outcomes. The results in Table VI suggest that the following deal types
create value: those that are not cash-only, those with a private target, those in which the
acquirer is large, and deals that are not relatively large in size.
Overall, these results echo our earlier findings that CAR is not a reliable indicator of
acquisition quality and is beaten by a simple model of characteristics known at the time of
announcement.
IV. Why CAR Fails to Reflect Acquisition Outcomes
We have shown that CAR does not consistently capture acquisition outcomes, whether
in-sample, out-of-sample, or across subsamples defined by time, industry, deal, or firm charac-
teristics. This inconsistency suggests that CAR’s limitations are systematic and not confined
to specific deal types. Factors such as anticipation, truncation, feedback, selection biases,
and measurement errors do not fully explain the lack of correlation, indicating that there
could be fundamental reasons why CAR may not be a good proxy for deal NPV.
We propose that CAR blends NPV-related and unrelated information. Over a quarter of
observed CAR values imply economically implausible deal valuations, suggesting that CAR
incorporates non-deal factors. Moreover, for canceled deals, returns around the withdrawal
announcement fail to offset earlier returns, indicating that CAR reflects extraneous signals
rather than pure deal content.
We then explore what drives the economic values implied by CAR. Its magnitude cor-
relates 6 × more with acquirer size than with target features. Thus, the CARs of a serial
acquirer seem drawn from a stable distribution regardless of the target’s size. This implies
that a firm like Cisco acquires targets of different sizes, but its CARs are drawn from almost
the same distribution. This pattern suggests that most information embedded in CAR re-
lates to the acquirer—private information, misvaluation, or changing risk—rather than deal
outcomes.
A. $CAR Must Contain Non-NPV Information
We propose that CAR inherently contains at least two components: information about
the deal’s NPV and an additional component (which we call X), representing value-relevant
42
information about the standalone acquirer. To explore these two components of CAR, we
introduce $CAR, defined as the “dollar value created (or destroyed)” based on CAR:
$CAR = CAR × Acquirer market capitalization (2)
= N P V| {z }
Deal-related value
+ X|{z}
Acquirer-related value
Previous research has also recognized that CAR can include value-relevant information
beyond the specific deal’s NPV. For example, investors might infer insights about the CEO’s
decision-making skills (Pan et al., 2016), the firm’s strategic planning processes (Gokkaya
et al., 2024), or signals of misvaluation (Hietala et al., 2003; Shleifer and Vishny, 2003;
Bhagat et al., 2005; Dong et al., 2006; Ben-David et al., 2015).
We argue that the CAR associated with an acquisition announcementalways reflects more
than just information about the deal’s NPV: it also encompasses value-relevant information
about the circumstances driving the acquisition. A firm’s decision to acquire another is
among its most significant actions and is not random; something triggers this decision at
a particular time. This trigger must surprise investors; otherwise, any NPV gains would
already be embedded in the stock price.
Triggers can be internal developments—like the outcome of an R&D project or a strategic
decision to enter a new market—or external changes, such as the emergence of a target or
regulatory shifts. These factors can alter the deal’s outlook and prompt an announcement.
Some triggers signal positive news, like a strategic move by a newly hired, talented CEO,
while others reveal challenges, such as the failure of an internal R&D project, that nonetheless
lead to a deal. Exogenous triggers—where firms randomly decide to acquire targets without
underlying reasons—rarely exist.
Therefore, CAR must reflect a combined signal of both the economic circumstances
prompting the deal and its NPV. The acquisition announcement invariably conveys new
information to investors about the acquirer’s strategic direction, managerial insights, or pre-
viously unknown intentions—information we denote as X. For example, a firm may decide
to enter a new market by acquiring a target with an existing presence, or a company lack-
ing the capability to develop new technology might acquire a target already possessing it.
Depending on investors’ prior beliefs, the acquisition decision may signal either positive or
negative news. As Grinblatt and Titman (2002) aptly state:
The stock returns of the bidder at the time of the announcement of the bid may
tell us more about how the market is reassessing the bidder’s business than it
does about the value of the acquisition. (p. 708)
Given that CAR combines two components (one deal-related and the other acquirer-
43
related), the question becomes empirical: can one extract NPV from the combined signal
$CAR? This task is complex because both components—NPV and X—are unobservable and
may vary independently in magnitude and direction. UnlessX is economically insignificant—
which our empirical findings suggest is not the case— $CAR cannot reliably estimate NPV.
B. CAR = N P V? High Prevalence of Implausible NPV Values
We begin by assessing whether CAR measures NPV, implying that X ≈ 0, by assuming
that CAR reflects NPV and evaluating the plausibility of the economic inference one would
make by observing CAR.
We propose that the magnitude of deal-related value creation is likely proportional to the
deal size, as NPVs should generally be bounded by the size of the deal, from both above and
below. On the downside, an acquirer typically cannot lose more than the invested amount
(the deal size). On the upside, unless target shareholders sell at a significant discount (greater
than 50%), NPV is unlikely to exceed the deal size. Thus, we assume |N P V /DealSize| ≤ 1.
B.1. CAR Implies Unrealistic Fat-tail Value Creation and Destruction
In 2022, Microsoft acquired Activision Blizzard for $68 billion. The CAR around the
announcement was 2.42%, suggesting value creation of $55.3 billion. Two years earlier, in
2020, Microsoft purchased CyberX. With a CAR of 2.25%, this signaled an astonishing value
creation of $33.5 billion. In this instance, taking CAR at face value implies that investors
believe that Microsoft’s leadership has a golden touch: they transformed its $0.16 billion
investment in CyberX into $33.6 billion, a staggering 200 × multiple. Furthermore, Mi-
crosoft’s CAR also implies that CyberX’s investors have sold their shares for mere pennies
on the dollar. Both of these interpretations strain credibility.
The Microsoft example is not unique. We perform a similar analysis for all the acquisitions
made by Cisco Systems. Cisco is one of the largest U.S. technology firms, known for its
decades-long acquisition strategy. Many strategy and finance case studies have been written
about Cisco’s acquisitions. Figure 7 analyzes 140 deals made by Cisco. 39 The dashed gray
lines represent the reasonable bounds on NPV (i.e., |N P V /DealSize| ≤ 1) as discussed
above. The blue hollow dots represent deals that fall within these reasonable bounds, and
the red solid dots indicate CAR values outside these reasonable bounds. Figure 7 shows that
an astounding 91% of deals (128 out of the 140) are outside the plausible range.
39For presentation purposes, we drop nine deals with large relative sizes ( > 0.03) or extreme returns
(outside ±8%).
44
Figure 7. Cisco’s Acquisitions and CARs
The figure plots CAR[ −1, 1] and relative size (i.e., deal size divided by acquirer size) of Cisco’s acquisitions
that are within the range of relative size ≤ 3% and that had moderate CAR ( ±8%). The dashed gray lines
represent the reasonable bounds on NPV (i.e., |N P V /DealSize| ≤ 1). The blue hollow dots represent deals
that fall within these reasonable bounds, and the red solid dots indicate CAR values outside these bounds.
0.00 0.01 0.02 0.03
−0.05
0.00
0.05
Relative Size (Deal Size / Acquirer Size)
CAR[−1, 1]
With the extreme example of Cisco in mind, we turn back to our analysis and consider
the full sample of 47,543 deal announcements for which CAR[ −1, 1] is available.40 We study
the relationship between $CAR and deal size by plotting the frequency of transactions in
which value is created or destroyed (based on CAR) relative to their deal sizes.
Figure 8 presents the transaction frequency as a function of$CAR and $deal size. For ease
of presentation, we split the sample by CAR’s sign. Panel (a) includes deals with positive
CAR, whereas Panel (b) comprises deals with negative CAR. Darker colors represent a
higher concentration of deals. The black lines represent $ CAR = $DealSize . In Panel (a),
deals above the black line indicate that the $CAR-implied value created exceeds the amount
paid. If $CAR indeed measures NPV, then the conclusion from Panel (a) is that in about
27% of value-creating deals, the targets’ shareholders sold their firm at a discount deeper
> 50%. Similarly, the conclusion from Panel (b) would be that in about 27% of value-
destroying deals, the value destroyed was much greater than the original amount invested
by the acquirer.
40Note that the base sample here contains all acquisition announcements regardless of the availability of
post-announcement data or conditional deal completion; therefore it is not subject to concerns like truncation
and survival.
45
Figure 8. $CAR and $Deal Size
The figures plot the frequency of transactions, presented as a function of$CAR and $deal size. Panel (a) uses
the subsample of positive $CAR deals, and Panel (b) uses the subsample of negative $CAR deals. Darker
colors represent a higher concentration of deals. The black lines represent $ CAR = $DealSize .
105 106 107 108 109 1010104
105
106
107
108
109
1010
$Deal size
$Value creation (CAR-implied)
(a) $Value creation vs $Deal size
Unreasonable
Value Creation
26.83%
105 106 107 108 109 1010104
105
106
107
108
109
1010
$Deal size
$Value destruction (CAR-implied)
(b) $Value destruction vs $Deal size
Unreasonable
Value Destruction
26.90%
B.2. CAR Does Not Reverse Upon Deal Withdrawal
Another empirical setting in which $ CAR = N P V has a specific empirical prediction is
the subset of deals that have been withdrawn. If CAR reflects only the NPV accrued to the
acquirer at the initial announcement, withdrawing a deal should undo the initial effect, i.e.,
CAR i,W ithdrawal ≈ −CAR i,Announcement.
We assess the distributional properties of the 2 , 000+ withdrawn deals described in Sec-
tion B.3.41 Because, like announcement CAR, withdrawal CAR can be dampened by antici-
pation and related effects, we focus on the signs rather than magnitudes of CARs; specifically,
we focus on instances in which withdrawal CAR is the opposite sign of announcement CAR.
In Figure 9, we present histograms of withdrawal [−1, 1] returns for both negative announce-
ment CAR deals (Panel (a)) and positive announcement CAR deals (Panel (b)). Suppose
withdrawal returns reflect NPV revisions and not X. In that case, we would expect neg-
ative announcement CAR deals to be skewed toward positive withdrawal returns (i.e., the
acquirer is canceling a value-destroying deal). Positive announcement CAR deals would sim-
ilarly be skewed toward negative withdrawal returns (i.e., the acquirer is losing a negative
41In this analysis, we focus on 2,141 withdrawn deals. From the 2,227 withdrawn deals, we remove 50 deals
without data on withdrawal announcement returns. We also remove 36 deals with the same announcement
and withdrawal date. For each withdrawn deal, we compute a three-day CAR around the withdrawal date
provided in SDC.
46
Figure 9. CAR Around Withdrawal Announcements
This figure plots histograms of CAR around withdrawal announcements. Panels (a) and (b) present his-
tograms of CAR[ −1, 1]W ithdrawal (withdrawal abnormal announcement returns) for negative and positive
announcement CAR deals, respectively. Panels (c) and (d) present histograms of CAR[ −1, 1]W ithdrawal for
deals with CAR Announcement ≤ −2% and CAR Announcement ≥ 2%, respectively.
−0.2 0 0.2
CAR[−1,1]W ithdrawal
(a) Deals with CARAnn < 0%
−0.2 0 0.2
CAR[−1,1]W ithdrawal
(b) Deals with CARAnn ≥ 0%
−0.2 0 0.2
CAR[−1,1]W ithdrawal
(c) Deals with CARAnn ≤ − 2%
−0.2 0 0.2
CAR[−1,1]W ithdrawal
(d) Deals with CARAnn ≥ 2%
NPV project).
The distributions of both histograms are notably similar. Only 53% of negative an-
nouncement CAR deals are associated with positive withdrawal CARs. Similarly, only 55%
of deals with positive announcement CARs are associated with negative withdrawal CARs.
These results imply that for about 50% of deals in both subsamples, the deal withdrawal
CAR does not appear to be simply a reversal of NPV expectations. This evidence implies
that non-deal-related information has been incorporated into the acquirers’ price, suggesting
that X is large.42
In Panels (c) and (d) of Figure 9, we repeat the analysis for transactions with extreme
CAR: CAR Announcement ≤ −2% (Panel (c)) and CAR Announcement ≥ 2% (Panel (d)). These
42The withdrawal itself may generate additional standalone information related to financing availability,
increased regulatory pressures, or management quality (Jacobsen, 2014).
47
subsets include the transactions that should arguably have the largest NPV effects if CAR, in-
deed, reflects deal NPV. Again, the distribution of withdrawal returns for negative (Panel (c))
and positive announcement CAR deals (Panel (d)) are relatively similar, implying no observ-
able reversal of the acquisition announcement return. Indeed, both distributions are heavily
centered near zero, indicating that X is contained in CAR and is not reversed when the deal
cancellation is announced. 43
C. How Important Is X in $CAR?
In the previous section, we provided evidence that the assumption that CAR reflects
NPV may not hold for many deals, suggesting that X is likely sufficiently large to distort
any inferences that could be made about NPV based on observations of CAR. To quantify
the relative importance of X in CAR quantitatively, we analyze the variation in CAR,
specifically the dollar value created or destroyed as indicated by CAR. Our central question
is whether this variation likely reflects information about the deal itself or the acquirer.
While we cannot directly observe the decomposition of CAR into the deal’s N P V and
the acquirer’s standalone value updates, we can assess their relative contributions using
an identifying assumption: deal-related value contributions scale with the deal size, and
acquirer-related value contributions scale with the acquirer’s size. Specifically, we assume
that |N P V| ∝ DealSize and that |X| ∝ AcqMarketCap.
For instance, the potential value creation or destruction from a deal is naturally con-
strained by the scale of the transaction itself, as the benefits or costs of synergies, inte-
gration, or overpayment typically relate to the deal’s size, supporting the assumption that
|N P V| ∝ DealSize. Similarly, information about the acquirer’s management quality, strate-
gic decisions, growth prospects, or governance applies to the entire standalone acquirer,
supporting the assumption that |X| ∝ AcqMarketCap.
In other words, our empirical procedure estimates the extent to which the distribution
from which the observed |$CAR| has been drawn is related to the acquirer’s market capital-
ization or the target size.
The dominance of acquirer-related factors in explaining the variation in $CAR (cumu-
lative abnormal returns) is clearly illustrated in a visual representation. We log-transform
(base 10) both the acquirer market capitalization and deal size, then divide each dimension
into bins with increments of 0.1. This creates a grid of bins based on the logged values,
yielding a final sample of 1,236 bins, restricted to those with more than five transactions.
43The results are robust to longer windows around the withdrawal announcement that capture the antic-
ipation of the deal cancellation.
48
In Figure 10, Panel (a) displays the standard deviation of $CAR for the transactions
within each bin, with darker colors indicating higher variation. Not surprisingly, larger
acquirers tend to make bigger deals. What stands out, however, is the color pattern: the
color scale remains nearly constant across deal sizes (i.e., up and down within acquirer
size) and intensifies across acquirer sizes (i.e., from left to right). This suggests that deal
size has little association with $CARs’ variation, while acquirer size has materially stronger
association with that variation.
In Panel (b) of Figure 10, we focus on bins containing only deals with negative $CAR
values—those typically interpreted as value-destroying acquisitions. To assess the magnitude
of the value destruction, the color of each cell represents the$CAR/Deal Size (median) within
each bin (on a 1 + log( x) scale). Median values lower than one are represented with large
markers. This plot reveals a strong pattern: based on the interpretation that CAR represents
NPV, acquirers engaging in relatively small deals tend to experience devastating losses many
times greater than the original deal size—often exceeding 10 × and, at times, 100 × the deal
size. Conversely, deals of the same size appear to destroy less economic value when made by
smaller acquirers. For example, consider a target valued at $100 million, where the acquirer
experiences negative CAR upon announcement. For a relatively small acquirer (say, with
a market cap of $1 billion), the median negative $CAR implies that the value destroyed is
less than the deal size itself. However, for an acquirer with a market cap of $10 billion,
the median value destroyed exceeds the deal size, and for a $100 billion acquirer, the value
destruction can exceed 40 × the deal size. The magnitude of these losses is economically
unreasonable.
Panel (c) of Figure 10 shows a similar analysis for value-creating deals. As expected,
smaller acquirers generate reasonable economic value relative to the deal size. However,
for larger acquirers, the median value created appears disproportionately high, sometimes
reaching up to 100× the original investment. Again, these values are economically fantastic.
Our conjecture is that these extreme values of value destruction and creation, as implied
by $CAR, do not reflect just the NPV of acquisitions but also capture other factors unrelated
to the deals. This helps explain why $CAR often shows economic values many multiples
greater than target deal sizes, especially for large acquirers.
Given that CAR includes both deal-related and acquirer-related information, we can
estimate the relative importance of the two components using the following regression spec-
ification:
log |$CAR i| = α + β log(DealSize i) + γ log(AcqM arketCap i) + εi (3)
where the dependent variable is the logged absolute value of CAR[ −1, 1] and the depen-
49
Figure 10. Std( $CAR) and Acquirer Market Capitalization and Deal Size
The figure presents heatmaps illustrating the variation in $CAR based on acquirer market capitalization and
deal size. We log-transform (base 10) both the acquirer market capitalization and deal size, then divide each
dimension into bins with increments of 0.1. This creates a grid of bins based on the logged values, resulting
in a final sample of 1,236 bins, restricted to those with more than five transactions. Panel (a) shows the
standard deviation of $CAR within each bin, with darker colors indicating higher variation. Panel (b) is
limited to deals with negative CAR and Panel (c) is limited to deals with positive CAR. In Panels (b) and (c),
cell colors represent the median value of $CAR/Deal Size on a 1 + log(x) scale, and cells with median values
with |x| > 1 are represented by large markers.
(a) Standard deviation of $CAR, per acquirer mkt cap and deal size
106 107 108 109 1010 1011 1012
105
106
107
108
109
1010
1011
Acquirer market cap ( $, log)
Deal size ( $, log)
106
107
108
109
1010
log(Std($CAR))
(c) Negative CAR sample: $CAR/Deal Size (p50)
106 107 108 109 1010 1011 1012
105
106
107
108
109
1010
1011
Acquirer market cap ( $, log)
Deal size ( $, log)
0
−0.5
−1
−5
−10
−50
−100
$CAR / Deal Size (p50) (c) Positive CAR sample: $CAR/Deal Size (p50)
106 107 108 109 1010 1011 1012
105
106
107
108
109
1010
1011
Acquirer market cap ( $, log)
Deal size ( $, log)
0
0.5
1
5
10
50
100
150
$CAR / Deal Size (p50)
50
Table VII. Determinants of the Variability in CAR
This table reports standardized regression results of the variability in $CAR on the deal size and acquirer’s
market capitalization. Columns (1)–(3) present regressions using a sample based on individual acquisitions.
The dependent variable is the logged absolute value of $CAR. $CAR is the change in the acquirer’s market
capitalization around the announcement event (window of [ −1, 1]). In Columns (4)–(7), observations are
defined over bins of acquisition announcements, and the dependent variables are the logarithms of the
standard deviation of acquisitions’ $CAR within each bin. In Columns (4) and (5), binning is based on the
interaction of rounded logged deal size and rounded logged acquirer market capitalization (both rounded to
the nearest 0.1). In Columns (6) and (7), acquisitions are binned by acquirers. We require bins to have at least
five acquisitions. All regressions include an intercept, which is not reported. We include the following deal
characteristic controls (medians within each bin): leverage, free cash flow scaled by lagged assets, Tobin’s-Q,
and previous-quarter market-adjusted stock returns, as well as dummy variables for stock-only, mixed-
payment, diversifying, competed, hostile, and public target deals. We measure firm-level characteristics in
the year before the deal announcement. All variables are standardized to have a standard deviation of 1.
Standard errors are reported in parentheses. ***, **, and * indicate statistical significance at the 1%, 5%,
and 10% level, respectively.
Dependent variable: log(abs($ CAR)) log(Std($ CAR)) log(Std($ CAR))
Sample: Bins Based on
All AcqMktCap & DealSize Acquirer-based Bins
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
log(Deal size) 0.106*** 0.120*** 0.123*** 0.109*** 0.055***
(0.010) (0.009) (0.007) (0.007) (0.012)
log(Acquirer market cap) 0.757*** 0.742*** 0.803*** 0.982*** 0.917*** 0.822*** 0.776***
(0.015) (0.012) (0.021) (0.006) (0.009) (0.017) (0.027)
Acquirer FE No No Yes No No No No
Deal characteristic controls No Yes Yes No No No No
Observations 39,585 39,585 35,687 1,236 1,236 2,509 2,509
Adjusted R2 0.684 0.694 0.717 0.973 0.981 0.740 0.743
dent variables are the logged deal size and the logged market capitalization of the acquirer.
Since this specification does not rely on deal completion, we run it on the entire sample of
acquisition announcements (nearly 40,000 announcements).
We implement this analysis and present the results in Table VII, Columns (1)–(3). The
coefficient on the logged acquirer market capitalization is about 6 .5× larger than that of the
logged deal size.
We conduct additional tests assessing the factors contributing to $CAR in Columns (4)–
(7) of Table VII. In Columns (4) and (5), we use a bin-level sample, where each observation
represents a bin defined by a specific deal-size segment and acquirer-market-cap segment.
Because each bin includes at least five transactions, we can calculate the logged standard
deviation of the $CARs. We then regress this statistic on the bin’s median logged deal size
and median logged acquirer market cap. The ratio of these coefficients reveals that acquirer
51
market cap is about eight times more influential than deal size in explaining the variation
in $CAR. Columns (6) and (7) use a sample based on a different binning definition: deals
are placed in bins were announced by a specific acquirer. This specification is designed to
answer the following question: for the same acquirer, to what degree does the $CAR vary
with deal size? The results show that even grouping deals at the acquirer level, acquirers’
median size explains 13 × more variation in $CAR than their median deal size.
The overall conclusion from the results presented in Table VII is that the information
contained in $CAR is influenced by acquirer-related information 6 × to 13× more than deal-
related information.
We see thus far that the variation in $CAR depends largely on the size of the acquirer.
This fact raises the possibility that $CAR in deals of large relative size (i.e., the deal size is
large relative to the acquirer) might contain more information about the deal. If this is the
case, we may still be able to learn about NPV by studying deals of large relative size. To
assess this possibility, we estimate the coefficients in Equation (3) independently for different
relative size deciles:
log |$CAR i| = α +
10X
k=1
βkI(RelativeSize i = k) · log(DealSize i) (4)
+
10X
k=1
γkI(RelativeSize i = k) · log(M arketCapi) + εi
We plot the coefficients and their confidence intervals in Figure 11. The results show that
for deals below the median relative size, the magnitude of $CAR is exclusively determined
by the acquirer’s size and not by the size of the deal. As relative size increases, the relative
importance of deal-related information increases and that of acquirer-related information
decreases. However, the rise in the importance of deal-related information never reaches the
critical point of dominating $CAR. At its best (around a relative size of 1, i.e., “a merger of
equals”), deal-related information explains about half of the information contained in $CAR.
Overall, these findings imply that CAR often contains more information about the ac-
quirer than the target. In other words, in terms of $CAR = N P V+X, X plays a significantly
more important role than N P V in CAR. As a result, without knowing what the market
learns about the standalone acquirer, researchers cannot extract N P V from CAR.
D. Practical Implications
We argue that attempts to extract N P V from $ CAR yield biased and unreliable esti-
mates. As discussed, CAR comprises both the deal’s NPV and an acquirer-specific com-
52
Figure 11. Variability in CAR, by Relative Size
The figures plots the estimated coefficients from Equation (3) across relative size deciles. Panels (a) and (b)
show results for specifications with 10 and 20 relative size bins, respectively. The blue lines represent esti-
mates for the acquirer-size component (γl), and the red lines represent estimates for the deal-size component
(βk). The shaded areas reflect 95% confidence intervals. These plots illustrate how the importance of deal
size relative to acquirer size evolves with the relative size of the deal.
2 4 6 8 10
−0.5
0
0.5
1
Relative size bin
Coefficient
(a) 10 bins
log(Acquirer market cap)log(Deal size)
5 10 15 20
−0.5
0
0.5
1
1.5
Relative size bin
Coefficient
(b) 20 bins
log(Acquirer market cap)log(Deal size)
ponent Xi, representing information unrelated to the deal’s NPV, such as revealed private
information or information about misvaluation. We can express this observation as
$CAR i = N P Vi + Xi. (5)
Researchers may try to isolate N P Vi by regressing $ CAR i on observable acquirer char-
acteristics Zi (e.g., size or past performance)
$CAR i = α + βZi + ϵi (6)
and interpreting α as the average N P V, assuming ϵi is random noise. However, this approach
is flawed because the error term ϵi includes both the residual of N P Vi after accounting for
Zi and the unobservable Xi:
ϵi = (N P Vi − α − βZi) + Xi. (7)
Since Xi is unobservable, it cannot be fully captured by Zi and remains in the error term.
Additionally, Xi may be correlated with N P Vi, as both reflect strategic information revealed
at the acquisition announcement. This correlation introduces endogeneity, making the error
term ϵi correlated with N P Vi and leading to omitted variable bias.
Therefore, without directly observing or accurately modeling Xi, we cannot reliably ex-
tract N P Vi from $ CAR i. The intertwined effects of Xi and N P Vi within $ CAR i make
interpreting α as the average N P V invalid. Controlling for observables alone cannot disen-
53
tangle N P Vi from $ CAR i, rendering $ CAR i an unsuitable proxy for the true net present
value of the deal.
V. Conclusion
Whether cumulative abnormal returns (CAR) around acquisition announcements is a
reliable measure of net present value (NPV) has important implications for corporate finance
scholars, the judicial system, and the economy. If CAR were a reliable barometer of the value
created in executive decision-making, it should be harnessed to improve economic efficiency.
Here are some examples. Executives’ incentive pay and promotion could be tied directly to
the value created in specific deals they worked on. When investors detect value destruction
via negative CAR, firm directors could use it as a cause to dismiss the executive team. The
judgment of antitrust investigators could be questioned if legal actions by the Department
of Justice’s antitrust division are uncorrelated with the information conveyed in CAR (Gao
et al., 2017).
Our tests reveal that CAR is not meaningfully correlated with ex-post outcomes. We
use four measures of ex-post acquisition outcomes: two transaction-level measures—goodwill
impairment and deal completion—and two acquirer-level measures of ex-post performance,
short-term and long-term abnormal ROA. Despite capturing different aspects of acquisition
performance, these measures are correlated.
We first document that CAR has no meaningful correlation with transaction-specific
outcomes or measures of the acquirer’s future performance, implying that CAR is a poor
measure of value creation or destruction. We show that a standard list of deal and acquirer
characteristics known at the time of the announcement can, unlike CAR, predict acquisition
outcomes reasonably well. We use this superior predictability to assess the relation between
CAR and the predictable component (using these characteristics) of acquisition outcomes,
but we find no relation. Thus, announcement returns fail to reflect all information available at
the acquisition announcement and are likely unable to capture expected acquisition outcomes
sufficiently. We show that the poor performance of CAR cannot be fully explained by
anticipation, truncation, selection, and feedback effects. Further, using CAR results in
unreliable inferences regarding the types of transactions (i.e., stock vs. cash deals, public vs.
private targets, or large vs. small acquirers) that create or destroy value.
Why does CAR not measure NPV? Though we do not claim to definitively answer this
question, we argue that CAR is likely dominated by non-NPV information. Specifically, since
acquisition decisions are endogenous, their announcement must reveal information about
their triggers. Our empirical investigation shows that the variability in CAR is often larger
54
than one would expect if it only measures NPV. Furthermore, upon investigating the vari-
ability in CAR, we documented that the dollar magnitude of CAR comoves with acquirer
size to a greater extent than with deal size, implying that CAR likely contains materially
more information about the acquirer than the target. As NPV is related primarily to deal
characteristics, the trigger (often associated with the acquirer) likely dominates NPV in de-
termining CAR. Therefore, one cannot easily extract information about the value created in
the announced transaction.
Researchers should avoid using CAR to measure deal quality. CAR is a bad predictor
because it is swamped by information related to the standalone acquirer (e.g., the trigger
that prompted the announcement). The information contained in CAR is influenced by
acquirer-related information 6 × to 13 × more than deal-related information. Researchers,
instead, should consider using a vector of publicly available characteristics that do a better
job of predicting acquisition outcomes (e.g., Ellahie et al., 2025). More research is warranted
on this issue.
55
REFERENCES
Ahern, Kenneth R., and Denis Sosyura, 2014, Who writes the news? Corporate press releases
during merger negotiations, Journal of Finance 69, 241–291.
Aktas, Nihat, Eric De Bodt, and Richard Roll, 2013, Learning from repetitive acquisitions:
Evidence from the time between deals, Journal of Financial Economics 108, 99–117.
Andrade, Gregor, Mark Mitchell, and Erik Stafford, 2001, New evidence and perspectives
on mergers, Journal of Economic Perspectives 15, 103–120.
Ang, Andrew, Robert J. Hodrick, Yuhang Xing, and Xiaoyan Zhang, 2006, The cross-section
of volatility and expected returns, Journal of Finance 61, 259–299.
Asquith, Paul, Robert F. Bruner, and David W. Mullins, 1983, The gains to bidding firms
from merger, Journal of Financial Economics 11, 121–139.
Bayazitova, Dinara, Matthias Kahl, and Rossen I. Valkanov, 2020, Value creation estimates
beyond announcement returns: Mega-mergers versus other mergers, Journal of Empirical
Finance 55, 119–142.
Beatty, Anne, and Joseph Weber, 2006, Accounting discretion in fair value estimates: An
examination of SFAS 142 goodwill impairments, Journal of Accounting Research 44, 257–
288.
Ben-David, Itzhak, and Alexander M Chinco, 2023, Modeling managers as EPS maximizers,
Working paper, The Ohio State University.
Ben-David, Itzhak, Michael S. Drake, and Darren T. Roulstone, 2015, Acquirer valuation
and acquisition decisions: Identifying mispricing using short interest, Journal of Financial
and Quantitative Analysis 50, 1–32.
Bennett, Benjamin, and Robert A. Dam, 2019, Merger activity, stock prices, and measuring
gains from M&A, Working paper, Tulane University.
Bens, Daniel A., Wendy Heltzer, and Benjamin Segal, 2011, The information content of
goodwill impairments and SFAS 142, Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance 26, 527–
555.
Berger, Philip G., and Eli Ofek, 1996, Bustup takeovers of value-destroying diversified firms,
Journal of Finance 51, 1175–1200.
Berkovitch, Elazar, and M. P. Narayanan, 1990, Competition and the medium of exchange
in takeovers, Review of Financial Studies 3, 153–174.
Betton, Sandra, and B. Espen Eckbo, 2000, Toeholds, bid jumps, and expected payoffs in
takeovers, Review of Financial Studies 13, 841–882.
Betton, Sandra, B. Espen Eckbo, Rex Thompson, and Karin S. Thornburn, 2014, Merger
negotiations with stock market feedback, Journal of Finance 69, 1705–1745.
56
Betton, Sandra, B. Espen Eckbo, and Karin S. Thorburn, 2008, Corporate takeovers, in
Handbook of Empirical Corporate Finance , 291–429 (Elsevier).
Betton, Sandra, B. Espen Eckbo, and Karin S. Thornburn, 2009, Merger negotiations and
the toehold puzzle, Journal of Financial Economics 91, 158–178.
Bhagat, Sanjai, Ming Dong, David Hirshleifer, and Robert Noah, 2005, Do tender offers
create value? New methods and evidence, Journal of Financial Economics 76, 3–60.
Bhattacharya, Utpal, Hazem Daouk, Brian Jorgenson, and Carl-Heinrich Kehr, 2000, When
an event is not an event: The curious case of an emerging market, Journal of Financial
Economics 55, 69–101.
Billett, Matthew T., and Yiming Qian, 2008, Are overconfident ceos born or made? Evidence
of self-attribution bias from frequent acquirers, Management Science 54, 1037–1051.
Bradley, Michael, Anand Desai, and E. Han Kim, 1988, Synergistic gains from corporate
acquisitions and their division between the stockholders of target and acquiring firms,
Journal of Financial Economics 21, 3–40.
Brav, Alon, and John Brian Heaton, 2015, Event studies in securities litigation: Low power,
confounding effects, and bias, Washington University Law Review 93, 583–614.
Brealey, Richard A., Stewart C. Myers, Franklin Allen, and V. Sivarama Krishnan, 2006,
Corporate Finance, volume 8 (McGraw-Hill/Irwin Boston et al.).
Cai, Jie, Moon H. Song, and Ralph A. Walkling, 2011, Anticipation, acquisitions, and bidder
returns: Industry shocks and the transfer of information across rivals, Review of Financial
Studies 24, 2242–2285.
Campbell, John Y., Andrew W. Lo, and A. Craig MacKinlay, 1997, The Econometrics of
Financial Markets (Princeton University press).
Chang, Saeyoung, 1998, Takeovers of privately held targets, methods of payment, and bidder
returns, Journal of Finance 53, 773–784.
Chen, Changling, Mark J. Kohlbeck, and Terry Warfield, 2011, Timeliness of impairment
recognition: Evidence from the initial adoption of SFAS 142, Advances in Accounting 24,
72–81.
Chen, Xia, Jarrad Harford, and Kai Li, 2007, Monitoring: Which institutions matter?,
Journal of Financial Economics 86, 279–305.
Cornett, Marcia M., Alan J. Marcus, Anthony Saunders, and Hassan Tehranian, 2011, The
impact of institutional ownership on corporate operating performance around the world,
Journal of Financial Economics 102, 284–301.
Cowan, Arnold R., Cynthia Jeffrey, and Qian Wang, 2023, Does writing down goodwill
imperil a CEO’s job?, Journal of Accounting and Public Policy 42, 107015,.
57
Cunningham, Colleen, Florian Ederer, and Song Ma, 2021, Killer acquisitions, Journal of
Political Economy 129, 649–702.
Daniel, Kent, Mark Grinblatt, Sheridan Titman, and Russ Wermers, 1997, Measuring mutual
fund performance with characteristic-based benchmarks, Journal of Finance 52, 1035–
1058.
Dasgupta, Sudipto, Jarrad Harford, and Fangyuan Ma, 2024, EPS-sensitivity and mergers,
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 59, 521–556.
Dong, Ming, David Hirshleifer, Scott Richardson, and Siew Hong Teoh, 2006, Does investor
misvaluation drive the takeover market?, Journal of Finance 61, 725–762.
Eckbo, B. Espen, Ronald M. Giammarino, and Robert L. Heinkel, 1990a, Asymmetric infor-
mation and the medium of exchange in takeovers: Theory and tests, Review of Financial
Studies 3, 651–675.
Eckbo, B. Espen, Tanakorn Makaew, and Karin S. Thorburn, 2018, Are stock-financed
takeovers opportunistic?, Journal of Financial Economics 128, 443–465.
Eckbo, B. Espen, Vojislav Maksimovic, and Joseph Williams, 1990b, Consistent estimation
of cross-sectional models in event studies, Review of Financial Studies 3, 343–365.
Edmans, Alex, Itay Goldstein, and Wei Jiang, 2012, The real effects of financial markets:
The impact of prices on takeovers, Journal of Finance 67, 933–971.
Edmans, Alex, Itay Goldstein, and Wei Jiang, 2015, Feedback effects, asymmetric trading,
and the limits to arbitrage, American Economic Review 105, 3766–3797.
Ellahie, Atif, Shenje Hshieh, and Feng Zhang, 2025, Measuring the quality of mergers and
acquisitions, Management Science forthcoming.
Elliott, John A., and Wayne H. Shaw, 1988, Write-offs as accounting procedures to manage
perceptions, Journal of Accounting Research 26, 91–119.
Faccio, Mara, John J. McConnell, and David Stolin, 2006, Returns to acquirers of listed and
unlisted targets, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 41, 197–220.
Fama, Eugene F., and Kenneth R. French, 1997, Industry costs of equity, Journal of Finan-
cial Economics 43, 153–193.
Fishman, Michael J., 1989, Preemptive bidding and the role of the medium of exchange in
acquisitions, Journal of Finance 44, 41–57.
Foster, Benjamin P., Robin Fletcher, and William D. Stout, 2003, Valuing intangible assets,
CPA Journal 73, 50.
Francis, Jennifer, J. Douglas Hanna, and Linda Vincent, 1996, Causes and effects of discre-
tionary asset write-offs, Journal of Accounting Research 34, 117–134.
58
Fu, Fangjian, Leming Lin, and Micah S. Officer, 2013, Acquisitions driven by stock overval-
uation: Are they good deals?, Journal of Financial Economics 109, 24–39.
Fuller, Kathleen, Jeffry Netter, and Mike Stegemoller, 2002, What do returns to acquiring
firms tell us? Evidence from firms that make many acquisitions, Journal of Finance 57,
1763–1793.
Gao, Ning, Ni Peng, and Norman Strong, 2017, What determines horizontal merger antitrust
case selection?, Journal of Corporate Finance 46, 51–76.
Gokkaya, Sinan, Xi Liu, and Ren´ e M. Stulz, 2024, Is there information in corporate acqui-
sition plans?, Working paper, The Ohio State University.
Grinblatt, Mark, and Sheridan Titman, 2002, Financial Markets and Corporate Strategy
(McGraw Hill).
Gu, Feng, and Baruch Lev, 2011, Overpriced shares, ill-advised acquisitions, and goodwill
impairment, Accounting Review 86, 1995–2022.
Harford, Jarrad, Mark Humphry-Jenner, and Ronan Powell, 2012, The sources of value
destruction in acquisitions by entrenched managers, Journal of Financial Economics 106,
247–261.
Harford, Jarrad, and Kai Li, 2007, Decoupling CEO wealth and firm performance: Evidence
from acquisitions and capital expenditures, Journal of Finance 62, 917–949.
Hayn, Carla, and Patricia J. Hughes, 2006, Leading indicators of goodwill impairment,
Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance 21, 223–265.
Healy, Paul M., Krishna G. Palepu, and Richard S. Ruback, 1992, Does corporate perfor-
mance improve after mergers?, Journal of Financial Economics 31, 135–175.
Henning, Steven L., Barry L. Lewis, and Wayne H. Shaw, 2000, Valuation of the components
of purchased goodwill, Journal of Accounting Research 38, 375–386.
Henning, Steven L., and Toby Stock, 1997, The value-relevance of goodwill write-offs, Work-
ing paper, Southern Methodist University.
Hietala, Pekka, Steven Kaplan, and David Robinson, 2003, What is the price of hubris?
Using takeover battles to infer overpayments and synergies, Financial Management 32,
5–31.
Irani, M. Vahid, 2020, Anticipation and value creation in M&As: A new approach, Working
paper, University of South Carolina.
Jacobsen, Stacey, 2014, The death of the deal: Are withdrawn acquisition deals informative
of CEO quality?, Journal of Financial Economics 114, 54–83.
59
Jarrell, Gregg A., and Annette B. Poulsen, 1987, Shark repellents and stock prices: The
effects of antitakeover amendments since 1980, Journal of Financial Economics 19, 127–
168.
Jennings, Robert H., and Michael A. Mazzeo, 1991, Stock price movements around acquisi-
tion announcements and management’s response, Journal of Business 64, 139–163.
Jensen, Michael C., and Richard S. Ruback, 1983, The market for corporate control: The
scientific evidence, Journal of Financial Economics 11, 5–50.
Jenter, Dirk, and Katharina Lewellen, 2021, Performance-induced CEO turnover, Review of
Financial Studies 34, 569–617.
Johnson, L. Todd, and Kimberly R. Petrone, 1998, Is goodwill an asset?,Accounting Horizons
12, 293–303.
Kaplan, Steven N., and Michael S. Weisbach, 1992, The success of acquisitions: Evidence
from divestitures, Journal of Finance 47, 107–138.
Kau, James B., James S. Linck, and Paul H Rubin, 2008, Do managers listen to the market?,
Journal of Corporate Finance 14, 347–362.
King, David R., Dan R. Dalton, Catherine M. Daily, and Jeffrey G. Covin, 2005, Meta-
analyses of post-acquisition performance: Indications of unidentified moderators, Strategic
Management Journal 26, 187–200.
Lehn, Kenneth M., and Mengxin Zhao, 2006, CEO turnover after acquisitions: Are bad
bidders fired?, Journal of Finance 61, 1759–1811.
Li, Kevin K., and Richard G. Sloan, 2017, Has goodwill accounting gone bad?, Review of
Accounting Studies 22, 964–1003.
Li, Zining, Pervin K. Shroff, Ramgopal Venkataraman, and Ivy Xiying Zhang, 2011, Causes
and consequences of goodwill impairment losses, Review of Accounting Studies 16, 745–
778.
Luo, Yuanzhi, 2005, Do insiders learn from outsiders? Evidence from mergers and acquisi-
tions, Journal of Finance 60, 1951–1982.
Macias, Antonio J., P. Raghavendra Rau, and Aris Stouraitis, 2016, Can serial acquirers be
profiled?, Working paper, Hong Kong Baptist University.
Malatesta, Paul, and Rex Thompson, 1985, Partially anticipated events: A model of stock
price reaction with an application to corporate acquisitions, Journal of Financial Eco-
nomics 14, 237–250.
Malmendier, Ulrike, Enrico Moretti, and Florian S. Peters, 2018, Winning by losing: Evi-
dence on the long-run effects of mergers, Review of Financial Studies 31, 3212–3264.
60
Meulbroek, Lisa K., 1992, An empirical analysis of illegal insider trading, Journal of Finance
47, 1661–1699.
Mitchell, Mark, Todd Pulvino, and Erik Stafford, 2004, Price pressure around mergers,
Journal of Finance 59, 31–63.
Mitchell, Mark L., and Kenneth Lehn, 1990, Do bad bidders become good targets?, Journal
of Political Economy 98, 372–398.
Mitchell, Mark L., and Erik Stafford, 2000, Managerial decisions and long-term stock price
performance, Journal of Business 73, 287–329.
Moeller, Sara B., Frederik P. Schlingemann, and Ren´ e M. Stulz, 2004, Firm size and the
gains from acquisitions, Journal of Financial Economics 73, 201–228.
Moeller, Sara B., Frederik P. Schlingemann, and Ren´ e M. Stulz, 2005, Wealth destruction
on a massive scale? A study of acquiring-firm returns in the recent merger wave, Journal
of Finance 60, 757–782.
Morck, Randall, Andrei Shleifer, and Robert W. Vishny, 1990, Do managerial objectives
drive bad acquisitions?, Journal of Finance 45, 31–48.
Offenberg, David, and Micah S. Officer, 2012, Anticipation and returns in event studies,
Working paper, Loyola Marymount University.
Officer, Micah S., 2007, The price of corporate liquidity: Acquisition discounts for unlisted
targets, Journal of Financial Economics 83, 571–598.
Pan, Yihui, Tracy Yue Wang, and Michael S. Weisbach, 2016, CEO investment cycles,Review
of Financial Studies 29, 2955–2999.
Papadakis, Vassilis M., and Ioannis C. Thanos, 2010, Measuring the performance of acquisi-
tions: An empirical investigation using multiple criteria, British Journal of Management
21, 859–873.
Parrino, Robert, 1997, CEO turnover and outside succession: A cross-sectional analysis,
Journal of Financial Economics 46, 165–197.
Powell, Ronan G., and Andrew W. Stark, 2005, Does operating performance increase post-
takeover for UK takeovers? A comparison of performance measures and benchmarks,
Journal of Corporate Finance 11, 293–317.
Ramanna, Karthik, and Ross L. Watts, 2012, Evidence on the use of unverifiable estimates
in required goodwill impairment, Review of Accounting Studies 17, 749–780.
Rhodes-Kropf, Matthew, David T. Robinson, and S. Viswanathan, 2005, Valuation waves
and merger activity: The empirical evidence, Journal of Financial Economics 77, 561–603.
Rhodes-Kropf, Matthew, and S. Viswanathan, 2004, Market valuation and merger waves,
Journal of Finance 59, 2685–2718.
61
Roll, Richard, 1986, The hubris hypothesis of corporate takeovers, Journal of Business 59,
197–216.
Schipper, Katherine, and Rex Thompson, 1983a, Evidence on the capitalized value of merger
activity for acquiring firms, Journal of Financial Economics 11, 85–119.
Schipper, Katherine, and Rex Thompson, 1983b, The impact of merger-related regulations
on the shareholders of acquiring firms, Journal of Accounting Research 21, 184–221.
Schoenberg, Richard, 2006, Measuring the performance of corporate acquisitions: An em-
pirical comparison of alternative metrics, British Journal of Management 17, 361–370.
Schwert, G. William, 1996, Markup pricing in mergers and acquisitions,Journal of Financial
Economics 41, 153–192.
Shleifer, Andrei, and Robert W. Vishny, 2003, Stock market driven acquisitions, Journal of
Financial Economics 70, 295–311.
Song, Moon H., and Ralph A. Walkling, 2000, Abnormal returns to rivals of acquisition
targets: A test of the “acquisition probability hypothesis”,Journal of Financial Economics
55, 143–172.
Travlos, Nickolaos G., 1987, Corporate takeover bids, method of payment, and bidding firms’
stock returns, Journal of Finance 52, 943–963.
Viswanathan, S., and Bin Wei, 2008, Endogenous events and long-run returns, Review of
Financial Studies 21, 855–888.
Wang, Baolian, 2017, Probability weighting and asset prices: Evidence from mergers and
acquisitions, Working paper, University of Florida.
Wang, Wenyu, 2018, Bid anticipation, information revelation, and merger gains, Journal of
Financial Economics 128, 320–343.
Weisbach, Michael S., 1995, CEO turnover and the firm’s investment decisions, Journal of
Financial Economics 37, 159–188.
62
The (Missing) Relation Between
Announcement Returns and Value Creation
Itzhak Ben-David, Utpal Bhattacharya, Ruidi Huang, Stacey Jacobsen
Internet Appendix
A. Sample Construction
Our sample of mergers and acquisitions comes from the Thomson Reuters Securities Data
Company (SDC) Domestic Merger and Acquisition database. Our sample begins in 1980 and
ends in 2018, allowing us to track acquisition outcomes in the five years after the transaction.
We include transactions that satisfy the following criteria: (a) the merger or acquisition was
announced on or after January 1, 1980, and completed by December 31, 2018; (b) the acquirer
is a U.S. company; (c) the acquirer is a publicly-traded firm; (d) the deal is not classified
as a leveraged buyout, spinoff, repurchase, self-tender, recapitalization, privatization, stake
purchase, or acquisition of partial or remaining interest; (e) the percentage of shares acquired
(or sought for not completed deals) is at least 50%; (f) the percentage of shares held by the
acquirer six months before the announcement is less than 50%; (g) Compustat has accounting
data on the bidder and the Center for Research in Security Prices (CRSP) database has stock
data for the month of the deal announcement; and (h) the deal value is non-missing in the
SDC database. These requirements result in an initial sample of 47,543 deals, of which 42,354
are completed, 2,227 are withdrawn (the deal outcome is known in these cases), and 2,962
are not completed but not withdrawn (e.g., the transaction may be pending, or the outcome
is unknown; we exclude these deals from the analysis). Internet Appendix Table IA.A1 below
lists the steps and number of deals remaining after each filter.
For each transaction, we compute acquirer announcement returns. We estimate daily
abnormal returns using a market model and a CRSP value-weighted index ( rmt). The mar-
ket model parameters, αi and βi, are estimated from 361 to 61 trading days before the deal
announcement day. CARs are then computed by summing the daily abnormal returns over
various event horizons. We estimate CARs over a three-day [ −1, 1] and an 11-day period
[−5, 5] surrounding each acquisition announcement, and over the entire acquisition process
beginning two days before the announcement and ending two days following the deal com-
pletion [Announcement − 2, Close + 2]. CAR may understate absolute value expectations if
the probability of deal completion is uncertain; using the long window that includes the deal
1
Table IA.A1. Sample Construction
This table reports the filters applied to the Thomson Reuters Securities Data Company (SDC) Domestic
Merger and Acquisition database.
Step Filter Description # of Deals
Completed Not Completed Total
1 Date announced: 1/1/1980–12/31/2018
2 Acquirer country: U.S. 349,687
3 Acquirer is public 117,566 48,504 166,070
4 Eliminate leveraged buyouts, spinoffs, repurchases, self-
tenders, recapitalization, privatization, stake purchase,
acquisitions of partial or remaining interest
103,015 23,443 126,458
5 Percent of shares acquired (“sought” for deals not com-
pleted) in the transaction: 50 to Hi
99,939 21,538 121,477
6 Percent of shares held by acquirer six months before the
announcement: 0 to 49
99,881 21,527 121,408
7 Drop duplicate deals in terms of the announcement and
effective date, acquirer and acquirer parent name, deal
value, target and acquirer sic code, and % of stock as
method of payment
97,745 21,116 118,861
8 Require match to CRSP 81,086 13,850 94,936
9 Require match to Compustat 80,444 13,630 94,074
10 Require CAR[ −1, 1] measure to be non-missing 78,406 13,256 91,662
11 Deal value is non-missing 42,354 5,189 47,543
completion date overcomes this issue as the probability of completion has moved toward one.
We construct transaction- and firm-level proxies for acquisition outcomes to assess the
core relation between announcement returns and value creation. Due to differences in data
availability across outcome measures, the sample sizes vary for each measure. In the next
two subsections, we provide further detail on sample filters and the number of observations
for the various outcome variables.
A. Abnormal ROA and Deal Completion Samples
Internet Appendix Table IA.A2 presents the additional filters we use to obtain the short-
term abnormal ROA (Panel A), long-term abnormal ROA (Panel B), and deal completion
(Panel C) samples. We require the particular outcome measure to be non-missing and all
firm-level control variables to be non-missing, including the log of market capitalization,
leverage, and free cash flow scaled by lagged assets, Tobin’s Q, previous-quarter market-
2
Table IA.A2. Abnormal ROA and Deal Completion Samples
This table reports the filters applied to obtain the short-term abnormal ROA (Panel A), long-term abnormal
ROA (Panel B), and deal completion (Panel C) samples.
Filter Description # of Deals
Panel A: Firm-level Short-term abROA Sample
Short-term abROA to be non-missing 31,266
Controls non-missing 28,710
Panel B: Firm-level Long-term abROA Sample
Long-term abROA to be non-missing 24,497
Controls non-missing 22,577
Panel C: Transaction-level Deal Completion Sample
Deal withdrawn to be non-missing 44,825
Controls non-missing 39,585
adjusted stock returns, relative deal size, and a set of dummy variables for stock-only, mixed-
payment, diversifying, competed, hostile, and public target deals.
B. Goodwill Impairment Data
In an acquisition, the acquirer exchanges consideration (cash, stock, or both) for the
target’s stock or assets. In most cases, the acquirer pays more than the value of the identi-
fiable assets of the target. As such, on the acquirer’s balance sheet, the value of the target
is recorded as a combination of the value of the identifiable assets and goodwill. Good-
will is the account on the acquirer’s balance sheet that captures the difference between the
consideration paid in the acquisition and the value of the identifiable net assets:
Goodwilli = Pricei − Value(Identifiable Assets)i. (A1)
From an economic point of view, goodwill can include the value of (a) a standalone going-
concern element, which reflects the higher value of a collection of assets over assets held
independently; (b) a synergy element, which reflects the value from combining the acquirer
and target businesses; and (c) any overpayment or overvaluation of the stock consideration
3
(Johnson and Petrone, 1998; Henning et al., 2000).
Accounting rules require occasional downward adjustments to the goodwill account
(goodwill write-downs or impairments). The impairment of goodwill can arise for the follow-
ing reasons: overvaluation of existing target assets, overestimated synergies, or the inability
to realize synergies due to firm, industry, or economy-wide shocks.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) published a new financial accounting
standard, SFAS 142, effective December 2001, intended to increase transparency and generate
goodwill balances that better reflect the underlying economic value of the acquisition on an
ongoing basis (Foster et al., 2003). SFAS 142 introduced four significant changes to the
existing rules. First, goodwill assignment and impairment tests must be conducted at the
“reporting unit” level (an operating segment or one component level below a segment),
making it easier to identify the goodwill recorded and the source of future impairments at
the transaction level. Second, acquirers can “write up” the target’s assets to fair value at
the time of the acquisition. 44 Third, goodwill is no longer amortized but is considered an
asset that can stay on the firm’s balance sheet indefinitely. 45 Fourth, firms must conduct
impairment tests following “material” events for reductions in the value of goodwill, and
for many years in our sample, annual impairment tests were conducted. If the appraised
value is less than the recorded value, then a goodwill “impairment” occurs. The amount
of goodwill is reduced on the balance sheet, and an impairment expense is incurred on the
income statement as a component of income from continuing operations. In September 2011,
FASB modified SFAS 142 so that formal valuations to produce comparisons of fair value and
carrying value of a reporting unit are only required when certain qualitative indicators of
impairment exist; thus, impairment tests are no longer required to be conducted annually. 46
44Identifiable intangible assets, such as patents and customer lists, are no longer included in goodwill
balances.
45Before SFAS 142, acquisition goodwill was amortized over a maximum of 40 years.
46Before the 2001 rule change, SFAS 121 prescribed only non-routine impairment tests following certain
triggering events that indicated that goodwill might no longer be recoverable. Under SFAS 142, the impair-
4
Goodwill reflects the premium paid over the identifiable assets in nominal terms. Thus,
the impairment of goodwill indicates that the remaining value of the target is lower than the
nominal value paid a few years earlier at acquisition. A large goodwill impairment, therefore,
likely captures value destruction. Due to the increased precision and timeliness of goodwill
reporting required by SFAS 142, we can construct goodwill balances and impairment at
the transaction level, yielding a direct and quantifiable representation of transaction-specific
acquisition failure.
To construct the goodwill non-impairment sample, we start with the 42,354 completed
deals described in Internet Appendix Table IA.A1. To align with the SFAS 142 roll-out, we
retain transactions announced between 2003 and 2018. We include additional filters that are
not imposed on our samples that use ROA and completion data. We require the transaction
value to exceed $10 million and to be at least 5% of the acquirer’s market capitalization at
the end of the fiscal year before the deal was announced. This filter allows a more precise
measure of impairment. For very small deals (both in dollar and relative terms), it is difficult
to determine the source of the impairment and, in many instances, the amount of goodwill
originally produced from the transaction. These filters yield 8,367 transactions.
Next, we link sample firms to Compustat goodwill data and identify all acquirers with
firm-level goodwill impairments. In this step, we exclude transactions with missing assets in
the year of deal close and transactions with missing or zero goodwill in both the year of and
the year after close. This yields 6,767 transactions.
ment amount must be determined using a fair value approach based on a two-step impairment test. In the
first step, the reporting unit’s fair value is compared to the book value. A second step is performed if the fair
value is less than the book value. In the second step, the fair value of the unit’s (non-goodwill) net assets is
determined, and the fair value of goodwill is the difference between the unit’s fair value and the fair value
of the unit’s identifiable net assets. The impairment amount is the excess of the book value of goodwill and
the newly assessed fair-value estimate of goodwill. Firms often use a weighted combination of discounted
cash flow, public comparable company multiples, and precedent acquisition transaction multiples valuation
as techniques to determine fair value.
5
Table IA.A3. Sample Construction for Goodwill Impairments
The table shows the sample construction. Panel A includes transactions from SDC that were announced
from January 2003 and completed by December 2018. Sample filters are described in the text. Panel B
describes the classification of the “potentially impaired” transactions. For this sample, we read through the
10-K Notes and Factiva to identify the target(s) that triggered the impairment. Panel C shows the final
sample composition.
Panel A: Sample Construction
# Deals 6,767
# Transactions without acquiring firm-level impairment within 5 years of deal effective date 5,229
# Transactions “potentially impaired” with acquiring firm-level impairment within 5 years 1,538
Panel B: Classification of “Potentially Impaired” Transactions
Deals classified in goodwill impairment sample
Impairment linked directly to target and exact impairment amount can be identified 543
Impairment linked directly to target, other targets in firm or segment also linked 126
Target is in impaired segment, target goodwill > 20% of segment goodwill 277
Total (% of deals potentially impaired) 946 (62%)
Deals classified in no goodwill impairment sample
Impairment is not in target’s segment or 10-K specifies another target as a source of impairment 262
Total (% of deals potentially impaired) 262 (17%)
Deals excluded from sample: cannot classify as impaired or not impaired
Target is in the impaired segment, but target goodwill is < 20% of segment goodwill 159
No information on goodwill created from acquisition 136
No information on the source of impairment 17
No goodwill created from acquisition 18
Total (% of deals potentially impaired) 330 (21%)
Panel C: Final Goodwill Impairment Sample Summary
Impairment sample 946
Non-impairment sample 5,491
Total 6,437
Controls non-missing 6,128
Final impairment sample 906
Final non-impairment sample 5,222
To identify goodwill impairments in the data, we follow Bens et al. (2011). We initially
screen for potential goodwill impairments by flagging instances in which the Compustat
variable “Impairments of Goodwill Pretax” (item 368 or GDWLIP) is at least 5% of previous-
year total acquirer assets in any year between the year of the acquisition close and five years
following. This requirement ensures that the impairment event has detectable valuation
effects. Of the 6,767 transactions in the sample, 1,538 deals are associated with a firm-
6
level impairment within five years of the deal’s effective date. This sample construction is
summarized in Internet Appendix Table IA.A3.
The Compustat goodwill and non-impairment data are based on aggregate firm-level
data, so it is not directly possible to identify transaction-specific measures. To identify the
amount of goodwill recorded for each transaction in our sample, we read through the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements in the first 10-K filing following the deal’s effective date.
Following an acquisition, the notes include an “Acquisitions” or “Business Combinations”
section that presents the preliminary allocations of the aggregate purchase price based on
the assets and liabilities estimated at fair values to line items, such as net tangible assets,
identifiable intangible assets, and goodwill. In this step, we also determine the recording
unit for which the goodwill has been allocated.
For the years with indicated firm-level impairment, we use the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements to determine whether and how much of the impairment is due to the
specific transaction in our sample. We also read through news articles and press releases in
Factiva if more information is required.
In many instances, the source and the amount of the impairment assigned to each target
are straightforward. In the most uncomplicated scenarios, the targets with goodwill impair-
ment and the amount of target-level impairment are directly listed in the Notes section of the
10-K, or the firm writes off the entirety of its goodwill balance. In other cases, the Notes list
the reporting unit(s) that suffered the loss. We search the 10-K, the Notes, and Factiva in
the year of the goodwill allocation to determine the reporting unit(s) to which the target’s
goodwill is allocated. If target goodwill is 100% of the impaired reporting unit goodwill,
the impairment attributable to the target is straightforward. For 543 transactions in the
potentially impaired sample of 1,538, we can link the impairment directly to the target and
determine the exact impairment amount.
In 126 other instances, the target is listed as impaired in the Notes, but the impairment
amount is unknown due to other targets also triggering the impairment. If the impairment
7
is at the reporting-unit level, we set target impairment equal to unit impairment × (target
goodwill/unit goodwill). If the impairment is reported at the consolidated firm level, we
set target impairment equal to total impairment × (target goodwill / total goodwill). Note
that our variable of interest is the occurrence of an impairment, which will be unaffected by
errors in the estimated impairment size.
For some transactions, we are uncertain as to the source and amount of the impairment. If
the target is in the impaired segment and target goodwill is at least 20% of segment goodwill,
we conclude that it is reasonably likely that the target has been impaired and include these
277 transactions in the impairment sample. We estimate the size of the impairment using the
relative size of the target goodwill as described above. Therefore, of the 1,538 “potentially
impaired” deals, we can classify 543 + 126 + 277 = 946 as “impaired deals.”
For 262 transactions flagged as potentially impaired, we determine that the impairment
is not in the target’s segment or that other targets have been listed as the source of the
impairment. These transactions are included in the non-impairment sample.
We cannot reasonably classify some transactions as impaired or not impaired, and thus,
they are excluded from the sample. We exclude 17 deals for which the 10-K provides no
details on the source of the impairment and another 159 deals where the target is in the
impaired segment but its related goodwill is less than 20% of segment goodwill. (We run
robustness tests in Internet Appendix Table IA.B2 and show that our results are unaltered
if these deals are included in the sample and classified as either impaired or not impaired.)
We exclude 136 deals that lack information in the Notes on the amount of goodwill created
from the particular acquisition and another 18 deals where goodwill was not created from
the acquisition.
Internet Appendix Table IA.A3, Panel B, shows that we could successfully link impair-
ment events to specific transactions. Of 1,538 transactions flagged as potentially impaired,
we can credibly classify 62% as impaired and 17% as not impaired, and we cannot classify
21% of transactions. Moreover, for 71% ((543+126)/946) of the transactions classified as
8
impaired, we know unambiguously the source of the impairment. To our knowledge, we are
the first to construct a comprehensive data set that includes transaction-specific goodwill
balances and transaction-specific impairment outcomes in the post-SFAS 142 period. Hayn
and Hughes (2006) also trace initial goodwill balances and subsequent impairments at the
transaction level, but they exclude 55% of transactions due to insufficient information. Over-
all, they focus largely on the pre-SFAS 142 period, when the disclosure of initial goodwill
and the source of the impairment was generally less comprehensive.
Internet Appendix Table IA.A3, Panel C, shows that the sample (6,437) is further re-
duced when we require announcement returns to be non-missing (6,435) and controls to
be non-missing (6,128). Thus, our final sample for goodwill impairment analyses is 6,128
transactions, of which 906 are classified as impaired, and 5,222 are classified as not impaired.
Internet Appendix Table IA.A4 shows summary statistics for this sample. We find that
14.8% of transactions are impaired by year 5 and that, conditional on impairment, 79% of
the impairments occur by year 3. In Internet Appendix Table IA.A4, Panel B, we report
goodwill and impairment statistics for the sample of 906 deals associated with transaction-
level impairment. The dollar values of goodwill impairments are large. On average, acquirers
write down 83% of the original goodwill allocated to the deal, and the impairment size is
about 11% of the acquirer’s assets.
9
Table IA.A4. Sample Statistics
This table provides summary statistics. Panel A shows sample statistics for the percentage of transactions
with goodwill impairment within five years of the deal’s effective date. Panel B shows statistics for the 906
transactions in the impairment sample.
Panel A: Transaction-level Impairment Percentages
% N
Year 0–1 5.5% 339
Year 2–3 6.1% 374
Year 4–5 3.1% 193
Impaired by year 5 14.8% 906
Not impaired by year 5 85.2% 5,222
Total completed deals 100.0% 6,128
Panel B: Transaction-level Impairment Statistics
Mean Std dev
$ Goodwill ( $m) 422.3 1,252.8
Goodwill/Net purchase price 69% 73%
Goodwill/Total assets 14% 12%
Impairment $ loss ($m) −242.1 643.7
Impairment/Goodwill 83% 35%
Impairment/Purchase price 57% 76%
Impairment/Total assets 11% 11%
10
Table IA.B1. Acquirer CAR[ −41, 1] and Acquisition Outcomes
This table reports results from regressions of acquisition outcome measures on acquirer cumulative abnormal
returns (CAR), measured over [ −41, 1]. The dependent variable is a non-impairment dummy (Panel A),
short-term abnormal ROA (Panel B), long-term abnormal ROA (Panel C), and a completion dummy
(Panel D). In Column (1), CAR is the only independent variable. In addition to CAR, Column (2) in-
cludes characteristics. Column (3) further includes year and industry fixed effects as independent variables.
The characteristics used as controls include the log of market capitalization, leverage, and free cash flow
scaled by lagged assets, Tobin’s Q, previous-quarter market-adjusted stock returns, relative deal size, and
a set of dummy variables for stock-only, mixed-payment, diversifying, competed, hostile, and public target
deals. We measure firm-level characteristics in the year before the deal announcement. Standard errors
are reported in parentheses. ***, **, and * indicate statistical significance at the 1%, 5%, and 10% level,
respectively.
Panel A: Probability of Non-impairment ( N = 6, 128, DV: Non-impairment Dummy)
(1) (2) (3)
CAR[−41, 1] 0.039 0.067 0.066
(0.061) (0.059) (0.061)
Controls — Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 0.000 0.036 0.089
Panel B: Short-term Abnormal ROA ( N = 28, 710, DV: Short-term Abnormal ROA)
CAR[−41, 1] 0.001 0.005* 0.004
(0.003) (0.003) (0.003)
Controls — Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 0.000 0.026 0.078
Panel C: Long-term Abnormal ROA ( N = 22, 577, DV: Long-term Abnormal ROA)
CAR[−41, 1] 0.004 0.006 0.004
(0.004) (0.005) (0.004)
Controls — Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 0.000 0.035 0.109
Panel D: Probability of Completion ( N = 39, 585, DV: Completion Dummy)
CAR −0.003 0.009 0.007
(0.005) (0.006) (0.006)
Controls — Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 0.000 0.056 0.111
B. Predicting Outcomes: Additional Tests
We consider whether our Section III tests that indicate a lack of correlation between
outcomes (e.g., non-impairment, abnormal ROA, and completion) and CAR are robust to
alternative definitions of CAR and outcomes and alternative measurement periods for the
11
outcome variables of interest, across industries, deal types, and firm characteristics.
Internet Appendix Table IA.B1 below replicates Table II, Columns (1), (4), and (5), but
redefines CAR using a longer event window [ −41, 1] to capture potential leakage or deal
anticipation (e.g., Ahern and Sosyura, 2014; Betton et al., 2014). The results in all four
panels confirm the lack of relation between CAR and outcomes.
Panels A and B in Internet Appendix Table IA.B2 replicate Table II, Panel A, but
we redefine the non-impairment dummy in two alternative ways. We define the goodwill
impairment sample in Internet Appendix B. For 159 deals in which the target is in the
impaired segment but the goodwill associated with the target is less than 20% of segment
goodwill, we cannot reasonably classify these deals as impaired or not impaired, so we
exclude them in our main tests. In Panel A, we retain these deals and assume they did not
result in impairment; in Panel B we retain these deals and assume they resulted in goodwill
impairment. Internet Appendix Table IA.B2, Panel C, replicates Table II, Panel B, but uses
industry-adjusted ROA (measured as ROA minus the median Fama-French 12 industry ROA
and averaged over the three years after deal completion) rather than short-term abnormal
ROA. In Panel D, we include deals that still may be pending or for which the outcome is
unknown as the outcome variable. The results in all four panels confirm the lack of relation
between CAR and alternative definitions of ex-post outcomes.
Firm attrition might become an issue when we track firm performance several years after
the deal (i.e., using ROA as the outcome measure in Table II, Panels B and C). To address
this possibility, we adjust the ROA computation. We calculate abnormal ROA by taking all
years with ROA data available up to six years after acquisition. Then, we carry out weighted
least squares (WLS) regressions of abnormal ROA on acquirer cumulative abnormal returns
(CAR). In each regression, the number of years of available ROA data is used as the weight.
The results are presented in Internet Appendix Table IA.B3, and appear similar to the main
findings.
We next define our ex-post outcomes at various periods following the deal completion
12
Table IA.B2. Acquirer CAR and Acquisition Outcomes: Alternative Definitions
This table presents regression results examining the relationship between acquirer CAR and various ac-
quisition performance measures: alternative non-impairment dummy definition 1 (Panel A), alternative
non-impairment dummy definition 2 (Panel B), industry-adjusted ROA (Panel C), and a completion status
dummy that includes unknown or pending deals (Panel D). Columns (1)–(3) use CAR as the sole indepen-
dent variable. Column (4) incorporates additional characteristics, while Column (5) adds year and industry
fixed effects. Column (6) includes only characteristics, and Column (7) combines characteristics with year
and industry fixed effects. Control variables include the log of market capitalization, leverage, free cash
flow scaled by lagged assets, Tobin’s Q, prior-quarter market-adjusted stock returns, relative deal size, and
dummy variables for stock-only, mixed-payment, diversifying, competed, hostile, and public target deals.
Standard errors are reported in parentheses. ***, **, and * indicate statistical significance at the 1%, 5%,
and 10% level, respectively.
CAR window: [ −1, 1] [ −5, 5] [A − 2, C + 2] [ −1, 1] n.a.
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
Panel A: Probability of Non-impairment (Alt Definition 1, N = 6, 278, DV: Non-impairment Dummy)
CAR −0.002 0.001 0.085** 0.110 0.106 Controls Controls
(0.106) (0.069) (0.037) (0.088) (0.101) only only
Controls — — — Char Year, Ind, Char Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 0.000 0.000 0.002 0.027 0.081 0.027 0.081
Panel B: Probability of Non-impairment (Alt Definition 2, N = 6, 278, DV: Non-impairment Dummy)
CAR −0.023 0.010 0.088** 0.076 0.072 Controls Controls
(0.103) (0.082) (0.040) (0.081) (0.085) only only
Controls — — — Char Year, Ind, Char Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 0.000 0.000 0.002 0.036 0.086 0.036 0.086
Panel C: Industry-adjusted ROA ( N = 30, 060, DV: Industry-adjusted ROA)
CAR −0.038 −0.009 0.015* 0.028 0.030 Controls Controls
(0.031) (0.020) (0.007) (0.019) (0.017) only only
Controls — — — Char Year, Ind, Char Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 0.000 0.000 0.001 0.245 0.327 0.245 0.326
Panel D: Probability of Completion ( N = 41, 951, DV: Completion Dummy)
CAR −0.017 0.004 — 0.029 0.022 Controls Controls
(0.029) (0.017) (0.021) (0.020) only only
Controls — — — Char Year, Ind, Char Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 0.000 0.000 — 0.062 0.072 0.062 0.072
date. We again replicate Table II, this time redefining the dependent variable each year
relative to the deal’s effective date (up to five years) for non-impairment and abnormal ROA,
and relative to the announcement date for completion. In Internet Appendix Figure IA.B1,
we plot the coefficients on CAR and 95% confidence intervals. These results show that even
13
Table IA.B3. Acquirer CAR[−1, 1] and Abnormal ROA: Weighted Least Squares
Regressions
This table reports results from weighted least squares (WLS) regressions of abnormal ROA on acquirer
cumulative abnormal returns (CAR). The dependent variable is the abnormal ROA, calculated by taking
all years with ROA data available up to six years after acquisition. In each regression, the number of
years of available ROA data is used as the weight. In Column (1), CAR is the only independent variable.
In addition to CAR, Column (2) includes characteristics. Column (3) further includes year and industry
fixed effects as independent variables. The following characteristics are used as controls: the log of market
capitalization, leverage and free cash flow scaled by lagged assets, Tobin’s Q, previous-quarter market-
adjusted stock returns, relative deal size, and a set of dummy variables for stock-only, mixed-payment,
diversifying, competed, hostile, and public target deals. We measure firm-level characteristics in the year
before the deal announcement. Standard errors are reported in parentheses. ***, **, and * indicate statistical
significance at the 1%, 5%, and 10% level, respectively.
Dependent variable: Abnormal ROA up to Six Years ( N = 32, 937)
(1) (2) (3)
CAR[−1, 1] −0.008 0.011 0.010
(0.015) (0.014) (0.012)
Controls — Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 0.000 0.033 0.072
though CAR performs better for short-term outcomes, it is still an ineffective predictor of
value creation.
We next examine whether the combined returns of the target and acquirer, which re-
flect total expected synergy gains (as opposed to the division of synergy gains), can predict
outcomes. We zoom in on the subsample of transactions with public targets (which repre-
sents 15–18% of the non-impairment, abnormal ROA, and completion samples) and compute
combined dollar gains by summing the product of acquirer CAR and acquirer market capi-
talization in the year prior to the deal announcement date and the product of target CAR
and target market capitalization in the year prior to the deal announcement. We compute
combined percentage returns by dividing combined dollar gains by the sum of acquirer and
target market capitalization. The results for combined CAR[ −1, 1] are reported in Internet
Appendix Table IA.B4. The results are similar to those reported in Table II: the coefficient
on combined CAR is not statistically significant when non-impairment and short- and long-
term abnormal ROA are the outcome variables and statistically significant when completion
is the outcome variable but with low explanatory power.
14
Figure IA.B1. Predictive Performance of CAR by Year
Panel (a) reports the coefficients of OLS regressions of the non-impairment dummy on CAR[−1, 1]. Panels (b)
and (c) are similar, except the dependent variable is abnormal ROA and a completion dummy, respectively.
In Panel (a), in the Year 1 regression, the dependent variable is the non-impairment dummy. In the Year 2
regression, we exclude firms with impaired transactions within one year, and the dependent variable is the
non-impairment dummy in Year 2. The Year 3 regression excludes firms with impaired transactions in
Years 1 or 2, and the dependent variable is the non-impairment dummy in Year 3. Year 4 and Year 5
regressions are computed similarly. In Panel (b), we measure abnormal ROA at the end of Years 1, 2, 3, 4,
and 5 following the deal completion. In Panel (c), we measure deal completion at the end of Years 0, 1, 2,
3, and 4 since the announcement. The light-shaded region indicates the 95% confidence interval.
0–1 2 3 4 5
−0.05
0
0.05
0.1
Years after transaction
Coefficient on CAR
(a) Non-impairment: CAR coefficients
1 2 3 4 5
−0.05
0
0.05
Years after transaction
Coefficient on CAR
(b) Abnormal ROA: CAR coefficients
0 1 2 3 4
−0.02
0
0.02
0.04
0.06
Years after transaction
Coefficient on CAR
(c) Completion: CAR coefficients
We next replicate Table II for each Fama-French 12 industry classification. We report
the results in Internet Appendix Figure IA.B2. Panels (a)–(d) show the coefficient and
95% confidence intervals for regressions of outcomes on CAR based on the specification in
Table II, Column (5), for each of the 12 industries. Panel (a) shows that the coefficient on
CAR in regressions of non-impairment on CAR is only significant at the 5% level (and the
correct sign) for the “other” industry (industry 12). Panel (b) shows that when short-term
abnormal ROA is the outcome variable, CAR is only significant (and the correct sign) at the
15
Table IA.B4. Acquirer CAR and Acquisition Outcomes: Combined CAR
This table reports results from regressions of acquisition outcome measures on combined cumulative abnor-
mal returns (Combined CAR). The dependent variable is a non-impairment dummy (Panel A), short-term
abnormal ROA (Panel B), long-term abnormal ROA (Panel C), and a completion dummy (Panel D). In
Column (1), Combined CAR is the only independent variable. In addition to Combined CAR, Column (2)
includes year and industry fixed effects, as well as characteristics as independent variables. Column (3)
includes year and industry fixed effects, and characteristics as independent variables. The characteristics
used in the controls include the log of market capitalization, leverage and free cash flow scaled by lagged
assets, Tobin’s Q, previous-quarter market-adjusted stock returns, relative deal size, and a set of dummy
variables for stock-only, mixed-payment, diversifying, competed, hostile, and public target deals. We mea-
sure firm-level characteristics in the year before the deal announcement. Standard errors are reported in
parentheses. ***, **, and * indicate statistical significance at the 1%, 5%, and 10% level, respectively.
Panel A: Probability of Non-impairment ( N = 1, 124, DV: Non-impairment Dummy)
(1) (2) (3)
Combined CAR[−1, 1] −0.024 0.220 Controls
(0.218) (0.144) only
Controls — Year, Ind, Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 −0.001 0.132 0.131
Panel B: Short-term Abnormal ROA ( N = 4, 174, DV: Short-term Abnormal ROA)
Combined CAR[−1, 1] −0.028 0.019 Controls
(0.017) (0.028) only
Controls — Year, Ind, Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 0.001 0.180 0.180
Panel C: Long-term Abnormal ROA ( N = 3, 423, DV: Long-term Abnormal ROA)
Combined CAR[−1, 1] −0.027 0.008 Controls
(0.022) (0.026) only
Controls — Year, Ind, Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 0.000 0.228 0.228
Panel D: Probability of Completion ( N = 6, 093, DV: Completion Dummy)
Combined CAR −0.192** 0.196*** Controls
(0.081) (0.062) only
Controls — Year, Ind, Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 0.001 0.173 0.173
5% level for the “business equipment” (industry 1) and “non-durable” (industry 8) industries
and is not statistically significant for the remaining 10 industries. Panel (c) shows that when
long-term abnormal ROA is the outcome variable, CAR is not statistically significant (and
in one industry has the wrong sign) for all 12 industries. Similarly, Panel (d) shows that
16
Figure IA.B2. CAR and Acquisition Outcomes: Fama-French 12 Industry Clas-
sification
This figure plots the coefficients and 95% confidence intervals for regressions of outcomes on CAR based on
the specification in Table II, Column (5), for each of the Fama-French 12 industries. Numbers 1 through 12
on the x-axis correspond to “business equipment,” “chemicals and applied products,” “consumer durable,”
“oil, gas, and coal extraction and products,” “healthcare, medical equipment, and drugs,” “manufacturing,”
“finance,” “consumer nondurables,” “wholesale, retail, and some services,” “telephone and television trans-
mission,” “utilities,” and “other,” respectively. Panels (a), (b), (c), and (d) use a non-impairment dummy,
short-term abnormal ROA, long-term abnormal ROA, and a completion dummy, respectively, as the key
independent variable. The red dots represent the point estimates, and the light red shading represents 95%
confidence intervals.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
−2
0
2
Fama-French 12 industry
CAR[−1, 1]
(a) Non-impairment
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
−0.4
−0.2
0
0.2
0.4
Fama-French 12 industry
CAR[−1, 1]
(b) Short-term abnormal ROA
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
−0.4
−0.2
0
0.2
0.4
Fama-French 12 industry
CAR[−1, 1]
(c) Long-term abnormal ROA
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
−0.4
−0.2
0
0.2
0.4
Fama-French 12 industry
CAR[−1, 1]
(d) Completion
CAR correlates with completion for only one of the 12 industries (i.e., “manufacturing”).
This result is in contrast to the statistically significant (at the 5% level) and positive (but
economically weak) relation between CAR and completion reported in Table II. Although
CAR correlates with outcomes in a few select industries, importantly, there is no overlap in
these industries across outcome variables. The results provide additional evidence that the
lack of correlation between CAR and outcomes is persistent across industries.
Internet Appendix Table IA.B5 replicates Table II across various deal types and acquirer
17
characteristics. More specifically, we run OLS regressions of each outcome on CAR, year-
fixed effects, and industry-fixed effects using 29 subsamples. We split the sample based on
the following deal and firm characteristics: the log of market capitalization, leverage and
free cash flow scaled by lagged assets, Tobin’s Q, previous-quarter market-adjusted stock
returns, relative deal size, and a set of dummy variables for serial acquirer, stock-only,
mixed-payment, cash-payment, diversifying, competed, hostile, high-tech, and public target
deals. In Internet Appendix Table IA.B5, we report the t-statistic of each regression in a
given cell. The green shading identifies coefficients that are the correct sign and statistically
significant at the 5% level. The results indicate that CAR’s performance does not improve
systematically in particular subsamples: in only five subsamples does CAR achieve statistical
significance for two of the four outcome variables, and in no subsample does CAR achieve
statistical significance for three or more outcome variables.
Internet Appendix Table IA.B5 examines deal and firm characteristics individually. We
next allow for the interaction of characteristics. We create 10 dummy variables based on
the following deal and firm characteristics: the log of market capitalization, leverage and
free cash flow scaled by lagged assets, Tobin’s Q, previous-quarter market-adjusted stock
returns, relative deal size, cash-payment, diversifying, serial, and public target deals. If the
characteristic is continuous, we create the dummy variable by splitting the sample at the
median. We then form subsamples based on all the unique interactions of these variables
and retain subsamples with at least 30 observations. We then split the sample into two time
periods, and, for each subsample and time period, we regress outcomes on CAR[ −1, 1] and
record the corresponding t-statistic. For both periods, we report the number of transactions
with a t-statistic greater than or equal to two, between two and minus two, and less than
or equal to minus two. In Internet Appendix Table IA.B6, Panel A, for non-impairment, we
run 22,298 regressions for each period and find that only 5% of transactions have the correct
sign and a t-static of at least two in the first period; only 3% do so in the second period;
and only 0.26% have the correct sign and statistical significance in both periods. Similarly,
18
Table IA.B5. Acquirer CAR and Acquisition Outcomes: Subsamples
This table reports results from regressions of acquisition outcome measures on acquirer cumulative abnor-
mal returns (CAR) using 29 different subsamples. The dependent variable is a non-impairment dummy
(Column (1)), short-term abnormal ROA (Column (2)), long-term abnormal ROA (Column (3)), and a
completion dummy (Column (4)). Using subsamples, we run OLS regressions of each outcome on CAR,
year-fixed effects, and industry-fixed effects. The subsamples are based on the following deal and firm char-
acteristics: the log of market capitalization, leverage and free cash flow scaled by lagged assets, Tobin’s Q,
previous-quarter market-adjusted stock returns, relative deal size, and a set of dummy variables for serial
acquirer, stock-only, mixed-payment, cash-payment, diversifying, competed, hostile, high tech, and public
target deals. We measure firm-level characteristics in the year before the deal announcement. We split the
sample at the median if the characteristic is continuous. Each cell represents a regression. We report the
t-statistic and shade the cell green if the coefficient is statistically significant at or above the 5% level.
Dependent variable: Non-impairment ST abROA LT abROA Completion
(1) (2) (3) (4)
Private target −0.051 1.426 −0.718 −0.011
Public target 2.831 0.249 0.337 3.945
Stock deals 4.460 0.131 −0.956 1.121
Cash deals 0.823 1.026 −0.335 1.942
Mix deals 0.221 2.876 0.490 1.348
Diversifying deals 1.776 0.322 0.106 −0.185
Not diversifying deals −0.177 3.567 −0.359 3.469
Competitive deals 0.489 3.727 1.159 1.274
Not competitive deals 1.011 1.628 −0.190 1.550
Serial acquirer 0.919 2.726 −0.457 1.531
Not serial acquirer 0.981 1.808 1.188 0.976
Hostile deals — 1.684 −0.509 0.735
Not hostile deals 0.991 1.871 −0.211 2.491
Large acquirer 2.317 1.667 −0.107 3.402
Small acquirer −0.677 1.133 −0.110 0.841
Large deal 1.260 3.314 1.107 4.955
Small deal −0.308 0.148 −1.058 −0.091
Large Tobin’s Q −0.257 2.577 −0.606 0.582
Small Tobin’s Q 1.957 0.500 0.252 2.377
High past return 0.593 2.078 -1.394 2.097
Low past return 1.265 1.154 0.938 0.849
High free cash flow 0.302 0.656 0.239 2.871
Low free cash flow 1.321 1.267 −0.502 0.525
High debt 1.277 2.784 0.505 3.232
Low debt 0.546 0.694 −0.526 0.711
High relative size 2.049 1.660 0.822 1.618
Low relative size 0.539 0.139 -2.755 1.616
High tech −0.754 1.041 0.605 1.511
Not high tech 1.513 3.972 −0.474 2.181
using short-term abnormal ROA, long-term abnormal ROA, and a completion dummy in
Panels B–D, respectively, we find no more than 10% of the regressions have the correct
sign and a t-static of at least two in either period. Only 0.54%, 0.11%, and 1.45% of the
19
regressions have the correct sign and statistical significance in both periods for short-term
abnormal ROA, long-term abnormal ROA, and a completion dummy, respectively.
In Internet Appendix Table IA.B7, we replicate Table II, Column (5), for the subsamples
that exclude the deals flagged as explicitly or potentially anticipated (e.g., deals where NPV
expectations may already be reflected in returns). CAR continues to underperform across
all subsamples.
We also take a brute-force approach by examining returns leading up to the announce-
ments as a measure of anticipation. In Internet Appendix Table IA.B8, Panel A, we sort
deals into three terciles based on the run-up CAR[ −41, −2]: tercile 1 contains announce-
ments with the most negative returns, and tercile 3 comprises those with significant run-ups.
In Panel B, we replicate Table II, Column (5), and focus on tercile 2, which lacks substantial
run-ups and presumably reflects the least anticipation. The coefficients on CAR are not sta-
tistically significant in any of the regressions, suggesting that even when isolating moderate
run-ups, we do not identify a consistently better-performing CAR.
We next test whether truncation bias and feedback effects can explain the lack of cor-
relation between CAR and ex-post outcomes. Specifically, we rely on the insight that the
likelihood of canceling a deal is predictable using acquirer and deal characteristics. Indeed,
Table III and Figure 4 show that characteristics predict deal completion reasonably well out-
of-sample. To carry out the test, we regress the completion dummy on characteristics using
the first half of the sample. We then predict the cancellation probability for transactions in
the second half of the sample. We sort transactions based on their completion probabilities
into three terciles, then repeat the Table II tests for both the lowest tercile (low withdrawal
probability) and the highest tercile (high withdrawal probability). Internet Appendix Ta-
ble IA.B9 shows that CAR does not perform better for the sample of transactions with a low
cancellation probability (which are less likely to face feedback effects): of the 21 regressions
reported in Panels B, D, and F, the coefficient on CAR is statistically significant in only one
regression.
20
Table IA.B6. Acquirer CAR and Acquisition Outcomes: Interactions
This table shows aggregated regression results of acquisition outcome measures on acquirer CAR[ −1, 1],
allowing for interactions among characteristics. Panels A–D report results for a non-impairment dummy,
short-term abnormal ROA, long-term abnormal ROA, and a completion dummy, respectively. We create
10 dummy variables for the following characteristics: the log of market capitalization, leverage, free cash
flow scaled by lagged assets, Tobin’s Q, previous-quarter market-adjusted stock returns, relative deal size,
and dummy variables indicating cash-payment, diversifying, serial, and public-target deals. For continuous
characteristics, we split the sample at the median. Characteristics are measured in the year before the deal
announcement. We form subsamples based on all unique interactions of these variables and include only
those with at least 30 observations. We then split the sample into two time periods and, for each subsample
and period, regress the outcome on CAR[ −1, 1], recording the t-statistic. For both periods, we report the
number of transactions with t-statistic ≥ 2, not significant (n.s.), or ≤ −2. Boldface values mark regressions
that have significant coefficients with the correct sign across both periods.
Panel A: Non-impairment Dummy
Total number of regressions: 49,902 First Period
Drop N ≤ 30 in both periods: 22,298 t-stat≥ 2 n.s. t-stat≤ −2
1,091 20,554 653
≥ 2 735 59 674 2
Second Period n.s. 20,000 990 18,444 566
≤ −2 1,563 42 1,436 85
Panel B: Short-term Abnormal ROA
Total number of regressions: 50,103 First Period
Drop N ≤ 30 in both periods: 16,354 t-stat≥ 2 n.s. t-stat≤ −2
1,777 13,932 645
≥ 2 1,074 88 920 66
Second Period n.s. 14,153 1,584 12,019 550
≤ −2 1,127 105 993 29
Panel C: Long-term Abnormal ROA
Total number of regressions: 49,614 First Period
Drop N ≤ 30 in both periods: 15,551 t-stat≥ 2 n.s. t-stat≤ −2
796 13,779 976
≥ 2 686 17 622 47
Second Period n.s. 13,780 721 12,292 767
≤ −2 1,085 58 865 162
Panel D: Completion Dummy
Total number of regressions: 40,594 First Period
Drop N ≤ 30 in both periods: 16,394 t-stat≥ 2 n.s. t-stat≤ −2
1,186 14,438 770
≥ 2 1,067 238 818 11
Second Period n.s. 14,601 927 13,008 666
≤ −2 726 21 612 93
21
Table IA.B7. Acquirer CAR[ −1, 1] and Anticipation Deals
This table reports results from regressions of acquisition outcome measures on acquirer CAR[ −1, 1]. The
dependent variable is a non-impairment dummy (Panel A), short-term abnormal ROA (Panel B), long-
term abnormal ROA (Panel C), and a completion dummy (Panel D). Across all columns, CAR is the key
independent variable. We include characteristics and year and industry fixed effects as independent variables.
The characteristics used as controls include the log of market capitalization, leverage and free cash flow scaled
by lagged assets, Tobin’s Q, previous-quarter market-adjusted stock returns, relative deal size, and a set of
dummy variables for stock-only, mixed-payment, diversifying, competed, hostile, and public target deals. We
measure firm-level characteristics in the year before the deal announcement. Column (1) excludes “explicit
anticipation” deals from Capital IQ and SDC. Columns (2) to (5) exclude “potential anticipation” deals
from Capital IQ, repeat acquirers, and repeat industry bids. Standard errors are reported in parentheses.
***, **, and * indicate statistical significance at the 1%, 5%, and 10% level, respectively.
Exclude Explicit Exclude Potential Anticipation Deals
Anticipation Deals Repeat Industry Bids
Sample: Capital IQ + SDC Capital IQ Repeat Acquirers 1 year 6 months
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5)
Panel A: Probability of Non-impairment (DV: Non-impairment Dummy)
CAR[−1, 1] 0.043 0.061 0.094 0.516 0.361
(0.100) (0.106) (0.138) (0.371) (0.235)
Controls — All specifications include Year, Ind, and Char —
Observations 5,666 4,813 3,185 480 962
Adjusted R2 0.088 0.098 0.103 0.109 0.111
Panel B: Short-term Abnormal ROA (DV: Short-term Abnormal ROA)
CAR[−1, 1] 0.017 0.016 0.012 0.029 0.022
(0.010) (0.012) (0.016) (0.037) (0.036)
Controls — All specifications include Year, Ind, and Char —
Observations 27,885 25,650 8,203 1,282 2,838
Adjusted R2 0.076 0.065 0.051 0.042 0.043
Panel C: Long-term Abnormal ROA (DV: Long-term Abnormal ROA)
CAR[−1, 1] −0.004 −0.003 −0.001 0.052 0.034
(0.012) (0.011) (0.025) (0.055) (0.038)
Controls — All specifications include Year, Ind, and Char —
Observations 21,988 20,421 6,282 1,225 2,590
Adjusted R2 0.106 0.094 0.069 0.051 0.052
Panel D: Probability of Completion (DV: Completion Dummy)
CAR[−1, 1] 0.047** 0.036** 0.032 0.115 0.122*
(0.017) (0.015) (0.033) (0.107) (0.062)
Controls — All specifications include Year, Ind, and Char —
Observations 38,538 35,904 11,319 1,224 2,902
Adjusted R2 0.152 0.148 0.148 0.159 0.160
22
Table IA.B8. Acquirer CAR and Acquisition Outcomes: Run-up
This table reports results from regressions of acquisition outcome measures on cumulative abnormal returns
(CAR). We sort deals into three terciles based on the run-up CAR[ −41, −2]. Panel A reports the summary
statistics of CAR[−41, −2] for each tercile. Panel B reports the regression results. The dependent variable is
a non-impairment dummy (Column (1)), short-term abnormal ROA (Column (2)), long-term abnormal ROA
(Column (3)), and a completion dummy (Column (4)). CAR is the key independent variable. We also include
year and industry fixed effects, as well as characteristics as independent variables. The characteristics used
in the controls include the log of market capitalization, leverage and free cash flow scaled by lagged assets,
Tobin’s Q, previous-quarter market-adjusted stock returns, relative deal size, and a set of dummy variables
for stock-only, mixed-payment, diversifying, competed, hostile, and public target deals. We measure firm-
level characteristics in the year before the deal announcement. Standard errors are reported in parentheses.
***, **, and * indicate statistical significance at the 1%, 5%, and 10% level, respectively.
Dependent variable: Non-impairment ST abROA LT abROA Completion
(1) (2) (3) (4)
Panel A: Summary Statistics of CAR[ −41, −2]
Sample mean:
Tercile 1 −0.149 −0.168 −0.164 −0.183
Tercile 2 −0.006 −0.006 −0.005 −0.007
Tercile 3 0.131 0.159 0.157 0.174
Panel B: Outcomes and CAR for “Tercile 2”
CAR[−1, 1] −0.031 0.025 0.023 0.017
(0.118) (0.015) (0.034) (0.047)
Controls — All specifications include Year, Ind, and Char —
Observations 2,047 9,579 7,550 13,193
Adjusted R2 0.071 0.117 0.157 0.149
Given that extreme announcement returns could also point to feedback effects, in Internet
Appendix Table IA.B10, we replicate Table II, Column (5), without extreme CAR, i.e., we
eliminate deals with CAR in the top and bottom 10% of the sample. The coefficient on CAR
is not statistically significant for any of the outcomes (despite achieving significance for a
few outcomes in Table II, Column (5)).
23
Table IA.B9. Acquirer CAR and Withdrawal Prediction
This table reports regressions of acquisition outcomes on acquirer CAR for high (top tercile) and low (bot-
tom tercile) withdrawal probability samples. Cancellation probabilities are predicted using a completion
regression on characteristics from the first sample half and applied to transactions in the second half. Pan-
els A–F use non-impairment dummy, short-term abnormal ROA, and long-term abnormal ROA as dependent
variables. Columns (1)–(3) use CAR as the sole independent variable. Columns (4)–(7) incrementally add
characteristics, year, and industry fixed effects. Controls include log of market cap, leverage, free cash flow
scaled by lagged assets, Tobin’s Q, prior-quarter market-adjusted returns, relative deal size, and dummies
for stock-only, mixed-payment, diversifying, competed, hostile, and public target deals. Firm characteristics
are measured pre-announcement. Standard errors are in parentheses. ***, **, and * denote 1%, 5%, and
10% significance levels, respectively.
CAR window: [ −1, 1] [ −5, 5] [ A − 2, C + 2] [ −1, 1] n.a.
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
Panel A: Probability of Non-impairment – High W/D Probability ( N = 954, DV: Non-impair)
CAR −0.019 −0.036 0.011 −0.037 0.063 Controls Controls
(0.114) (0.097) (0.025) (0.139) (0.097) only only
Controls — — — Char Year, Ind, Char Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 −0.001 −0.001 −0.001 0.009 0.033 0.010 0.034
Panel B: Probability of Non-impairment – Low W/D Probability ( N = 954, DV: Non-impair)
CAR 0.014 0.118 0.113 0.243 0.244 Controls Controls
(0.137) (0.107) (0.092) (0.140) (0.144) only only
Controls — — — Char Year, Ind, Char Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 −0.001 0.000 0.005 0.068 0.128 0.065 0.124
Panel C: ST Abnormal ROA — High W/D Probability ( N = 4, 783, DV: ST abROA)
CAR 0.012 0.010 0.027** 0.034 0.022 Controls Controls
(0.023) (0.012) (0.010) (0.023) (0.026) only only
Controls — — — Char Year, Ind, Char Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 0.000 0.000 0.002 0.047 0.228 0.047 0.228
Panel D: ST Abnormal ROA — Low W/D Probability ( N = 4, 786, DV: ST abROA)
CAR −0.024 −0.020 0.000 −0.011 −0.007 Controls Controls
(0.030) (0.012) (0.006) (0.028) (0.025) only only
Controls — — — Char Year, Ind, Char Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.056 0.111 0.056 0.111
Panel E: LT Abnormal ROA — High W/D Probability ( N = 3, 571, DV: LT abROA)
CAR −0.045 −0.034 0.021 −0.015 −0.023 Controls Controls
(0.035) (0.019) (0.014) (0.033) (0.025) only only
Controls — — — Char Year, Ind, Char Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 0.000 0.001 0.001 0.045 0.274 0.045 0.274
Panel F: LT Abnormal ROA — Low W/D Probability ( N = 3, 571, DV: LT abROA)
CAR −0.026 −0.022 0.007*** −0.014 −0.007 Controls Controls
(0.039) (0.030) (0.002) (0.031) (0.029) only only
Controls — — — Char Year, Ind, Char Char Year, Ind, Char
Adjusted R2 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.062 0.133 0.062 0.133
24
Table IA.B10. Acquirer CAR and Acquisition Outcomes: Trim Extreme Values
This table replicates Table II, Column (5), but we eliminate deals with CAR in the top and bottom 10% of
the sample. The dependent variable is a non-impairment dummy (Column (1)), short-term abnormal ROA
(Column (2)), long-term abnormal ROA (Column (3)), or a completion dummy (Column (4)). CAR[ −1, 1]
is the independent variable. The regressions include year and industry fixed effects, and characteristics as
independent variables. The following characteristics are used as controls: the log of market capitalization,
leverage and free cash flow scaled by lagged assets, Tobin’s Q, previous-quarter market-adjusted stock re-
turns, relative deal size, and a set of dummy variables for stock-only, mixed-payment, diversifying, competed,
hostile, and public target deals. We measure firm-level characteristics in the year before the deal announce-
ment. Standard errors are reported in parentheses. ***, **, and * indicate statistical significance at the 1%,
5%, and 10% level, respectively.
Dependent variable: Non-impairment Short-term abROA Long-term abROA Completion
(1) (2) (3) (4)
CAR[−1, 1] −0.077 0.003 0.001 0.039
(0.189) (0.014) (0.025) (0.027)
Controls — All specifications include Year, Ind, and Char —
Observations 4,893 22,976 18,063 31,668
Adjusted R2 0.084 0.087 0.124 0.165
25
C. Validation of Impairment as a Measure of Value
Destruction
In this section, we validate goodwill impairment events as a signal of value destruction. To
do so, we examine (a) the market’s reaction to the news that the goodwill of a past transaction
has been impaired, (b) distressed delistings following the impairment announcement, (c) the
operating and financial performance of the impaired acquirers after the deal announcement,
and (d) management turnover around the impairment announcement.
A. Market Response to Impairment News
We test whether investors perceive goodwill impairment as conveying negative news, i.e.,
they recognize that value has been lost. Our test replicates prior research in the accounting
literature documenting that goodwill impairment events are value-relevant. 47
We use Compustat quarterly data to identify the first quarter in which each transaction in
our impairment sample experienced a goodwill write-down and the earnings announcement
date for that quarter. Unique earnings announcement dates for an acquirer are included in
the sample only once if multiple transactions experience a goodwill impairment announce-
ment for a particular acquirer on the same earnings announcement date. We create three
control samples. First, for the non-impairment sample, we generate pseudo-impairment dates
on earnings announcements three years following the deal’s effective date. (The mean time
to impairment is about three years.) Our second control sample, “Matched Control Sam-
ple 1,” comprises firms that announce earnings in the same quarter and have the same fiscal
year-end and two-digit SIC code as the impaired firm. Our third control sample, “Matched
Control Sample 2,” comprises firms that announce earnings in the same quarter, have the
same fiscal year-end and two-digit SIC code as the impaired firm, and are in the same market
47In tune with this literature, we interpret this result as a response to a revelation ofpast value destruction
(e.g., Henning and Stock, 1997; Bens et al., 2011; Chen et al., 2011; Gu and Lev, 2011; Li et al., 2011).
26
Table IA.C1. Market Reaction to Goodwill Impairment News
This table reports the mean cumulative abnormal returns (CAR) surrounding quarterly earnings announce-
ment dates. For the impairment sample, we focus on the first earnings announcement when a goodwill
impairment is announced for a particular transaction. Unique earnings announcement dates for an acquirer
are included in the sample only once if multiple transactions experience a goodwill impairment announce-
ment for a specific acquirer on the same earnings announcement date. For the non-impairment sample, we
generate “pseudo” impairment dates three years (the average time to impair) following the deal close date.
We also create two matched samples of control firms that did not announce impairment news. “Control1”
is a matched sample that includes firms that announce earnings in the same quarter and have the same
fiscal year-end and two-digit SIC code as the impaired firm. “Control2” is a matched sample that includes
firms that announce earnings in the same quarter and have the same fiscal year-end and two-digit SIC code
and are in the same market capitalization tercile as the impaired firm. CARs are based on market-adjusted
returns using the Center for Research in Security Prices (CRSP) value-weighted index. The event period is
listed in brackets.“Difference” refers to the differences between the Impairment and Control samples. Tests
for differences are based on the t-test. ***, **, and * indicate statistical significance at the 1%, 5%, and
10% level, respectively. “ns” denotes mean CARs or differences that are not statistically different from zero.
Sample: Impairment Non-impair Control1 Control2 Difference ( t−test)
Window: (1) (2) (3) (4) (1) −(2) (1) −(3) (1) −(4)
CAR[−1, 1] −2.8% *** 0.3% ** 0.2% *** 0.2% *** −3.1% *** −3.0% *** −3.0% ***
CAR[0, 1] −2.9% *** 0.1% ns 0.0% ns 0.0% ns −3.0% *** −2.9% *** −2.9% ***
CAR[-5,5] −3.3% *** 0.4% ** 0.7% *** 0.8% *** −3.7% *** −4.0% *** −4.1% ***
CAR[−10, 10] −3.7% *** 0.7% *** 1.5% *** 1.7% *** −4.4% *** −5.2% *** −5.4% ***
capitalization tercile as the impaired firm. To avoid estimating market model parameters in
pre- and post-acquisition periods, we compute market-adjusted returns using the Center for
Research in Security Prices (CRSP) value-weighted index.
Table IA.C1 shows the results over four event windows. For the impairment sample,
cumulative abnormal returns are negative and statistically different from zero for all four
event windows (mean CARs range from −2.8% to −3.7%). The market response to earnings
announcements for the three control samples is small and positive for all four event windows
(mean CARs range from 0 .0% to 1 .7%). Importantly, the market response to earnings
announcements containing goodwill impairment is statistically lower than the three control
samples for all event windows. Although earnings announcements contain other information
besides goodwill impairment news, the results suggest that the market considers goodwill
impairment events bad news.
27
Table IA.C2. Post-deal Performance for Firms with Goodwill Impairment
Panel A reports univariate statistics on the number of acquirer firms that exit the public market within five
years of the deal’s effective date. Panel B reports median industry-adjusted accounting performance in the
third year after the deal announcement. Tests for differences between samples are based on the Wilcoxon
rank test. ***, **, and * indicate statistical significance at the 1%, 5%, and 10% level, respectively.
Panel A: Post-deal Public Market Exits
Sample: Impairment Non-impairment
# % # % Difference
Merged/Went private 124 15% 1,098 23% −9.0% ***
Delisted 77 9% 113 2% 6.6% ***
Bankrupt/Liquidated 23 3% 35 1% 1.9% ***
Panel B: Industry-adjusted Accounting Performance During 3 Years After Deal
Impairment sample Non-impairment sample Difference
Sales growth −5.3% 0.7% −6.0% ***
COGS/Sales 2.0% −1.5% 3.0% ***
SGA/Assets −0.3% −1.2% 0.9% ***
PPE Growth −4.0% 1.5% −5.5% ***
FCF/Assets −3.1% 0.9% −4.0% ***
ROA −0.1% 1.1% −1.2% ***
ROE −7.1% 0.5% −7.6% ***
Tobin’s Q −26.8% −0.7% −26.1% ***
Earnings/Price −4.7% 0.8% −5.5% ***
B. Acquirer’s Distressed Delisting
Table IA.C2, Panel A, shows univariate statistics on the number of acquirer firms that
exit the public market within five years of the deal’s effective date. Public market exit data
are obtained using the CRSP delisting code. Acquirers are categorized as “Merged/Went
private” for delisting codes 200–390 and 573. Acquirers are classified as “Delisted” for
delisting codes between 500 and 600 (excluding 573 and 574) and “Bankrupt/Liquidated”
for delisting codes 400–490 and 574. We retain only one observation when an acquirer in the
impairment or non-impairment sample announces multiple transactions in the same year.
Table IA.C2, Panel A, shows that firms in the impairment sample are significantly more
likely to be delisted and to go through a bankruptcy or liquidation process than firms in the
non-impairment sample. In contrast, firms in the non-impairment sample are more likely to
merge or go private. These findings imply that impairment is a good proxy for deal failure.
28
C. Acquirers’ Long-term Performance
We examine industry-adjusted accounting and stock performance for the three years
after the deal announcement. We retain only one observation when an acquirer in the
impairment or non-impairment sample announces multiple transactions in the same year. We
report the following median performance measures, adjusted by the median Fama-French 48
industry value: sales growth; cost of goods sold (COGS) scaled by sales; selling, general,
and administrative expenses (SG&A) scaled by sales; property, plant, and equipment (PPE)
growth; free cash flow (FCF) scaled by assets; return on assets (ROA); return on equity
(ROE); Tobin’s Q; and the earnings-to-price ratio.
Table IA.C2, Panel B, reports median industry-adjusted statistics and tests of statistical
differences between the non-impairment and impairment samples. We observe statistically
superior performance for the non-impairment sample relative to the impairment sample for
the three years following the acquisition announcement for all nine performance measures.
Figure IA.C1, Panels (a)–(f), show the operating performance from one year before to
three years following the acquisition. Across panels, we generally observe that industry-
adjusted performance measures begin to materially diverge in the years following the deal
announcement for the impairment sample (red lines) and the non-impairment sample (blue
lines), indicating that impairment firms encounter significant firm-level adverse shocks in
the years following the acquisition. For many measures, the divergence begins in the year
following the acquisition but widens further two years after.
Figure IA.C2, Panels (a)–(d), show the financial performance from two years before to
three years after the acquisition. Note here that the gap between the blue and red lines in-
creases not so much before but after the deal announcement. Figure IA.C2, Panel (d), shows
that the returns to the realized impairment sample remain relatively flat at the announce-
ment but decline dramatically thereafter. Returns to the realized non-impairment sample
continue their steady growth; consequently, the gap between the two subsamples widens.
29
Figure IA.C1. Operating Performance and Goodwill Impairment
The figure shows the industry-adjusted operating performance of acquirers that impaired goodwill (in red)
relative to acquirers that did not impair goodwill (in blue). The period begins two years before the acquisition
and ends three years after. Panel (a) shows sales growth. Panel (b) shows the cost of goods sold/sales.
Panel (c) shows sales, general, and administrative expenses/assets. Panel (d) shows plant, property, and
equipment growth. Panel (e) shows free cash flow/assets. Panel (f) shows the return on assets.
−2 −1 0 1 2 3
−0.05
0
0.05
0.1
(a) Sales growth
Non-ImpairmentImpairment
−2 −1 0 1 2 3
−0.02
0
0.02
(b) Cost of goods sold/Sales
−2 −1 0 1 2 3
−0.04
−0.02
0
(c) Sales, general, and admin expenses/Assets
−2 −1 0 1 2 3
−0.05
0
0.05
0.1
(d) Plant, property, and equipment growth
−2 −1 0 1 2 3
−0.02
0
0.02
Transaction year
(e) Free cash flow/Assets
−2 −1 0 1 2 3
0
0.01
0.02
Transaction year
(f) Return on assets
D. CEO Turnover Around Goodwill Impairment
We consider both the likelihood of CEO turnover following the deal and the timing of
turnover for the impairment sample. In independent work, Cowan et al. (2023) perform a
similar analysis and conclude that goodwill impairment is a good indicator of CEO under-
30
Figure IA.C2. Financial Performance and Goodwill Impairment
The figure shows the industry-adjusted financial performance of acquirers that impaired goodwill (in red)
relative to acquirers that did not impair goodwill (in blue). The period begins two years before the acquisition
and ends three years after. Panel (a) shows the return on equity. Panel (b) shows Tobin’s Q. Panel (c) shows
the earnings-to-price ratio. Panel (d) shows industry-adjusted buy-and-hold cumulative returns.
−2 −1 0 1 2 3
−0.05
0
(a) Return on equity
Non-ImpairmentImpairment
−2 −1 0 1 2 3
−0.3
−0.2
−0.1
0
(b) Tobin’s Q
−2 −1 0 1 2 3
−0.04
−0.02
0
Transaction year
(c) Earnings-to-price ratio
−2 −1 0 1 2 3
−0.2
0
0.2
0.4
Transaction year
(d) Industry-adj cumulative returns
performance.
Unlike the previous tests in Appendix Sections C.1, C.2, and C.3, which utilize the full
sample of 906 goodwill impairments, because turnover events require manual hand-collected
data, we report the results for a smaller subsample of 355 impairments that was utilized in
a previous version of the paper. This subsample only includes impairments between 2003
and 2013 and uses more stringent filters than the current version of the paper (e.g., excludes
acquisitions by financial firms).
We track turnover events between the deal announcement and four years after the first
impairment event. This analysis is conducted at the CEO-impairment level. If a CEO is
associated with multiple impairment events, we retain only the transaction with the largest
impairment amount. We identify three types of forced CEO turnover: (1) internal turnover
31
(fired by the board), (2) takeover turnover, and (3) bankruptcy turnover. Turnover events
are identified using proxy statements, press releases, and news articles in Factiva. We follow
Weisbach (1995), Parrino (1997), and Lehn and Zhao (2006) in identifying turnover events.
If the CEO is reported as fired, forced from his or her position, or departed due to unspecified
policy differences, then the CEO is classified as experiencing an internal turnover event. If
the CEO is under the age of 65 and the reason for departure is unrelated to death, poor
health, or the acceptance of another position, or if it is announced that the CEO is retiring
and yet the announcement is not at least six months before succession, then the CEO is
classified as experiencing an internal turnover event. For firms that are acquired, if we
cannot find evidence that the CEO retained a role in the acquiring entity, then the CEO is
classified as experiencing a takeover turnover event. For firms that enter bankruptcy, if we
cannot find evidence that the CEO retained his or her job during the bankruptcy process,
then the CEO is classified as experiencing a bankruptcy turnover event.
Table IA.C3 presents results for the full sample of transactions in the impairment sample.
We find that 45% of CEOs experience a turnover event between the deal announcement and
four years following the impairment, indicating that close to half of the impairment sample
CEOs are disciplined by the labor market. To provide a relative comparison, Jenter and
Lewellen (2021) show that, not conditional on acquisition activity, on average, 12% of CEOs
turnover in a given year. For acquiring firms (that may or may not experience impairment),
Lehn and Zhao (2006) find a 47% CEO turnover propensity within five years of the deal
announcement date.
However, our main interest is the turnover timing, which allows us to assess whether
the CEO’s departure results from the market’s assessment of value destruction at the deal
announcement or results from the subsequent impairment event itself. If value destruction
is anticipated, CEOs should be more likely to be fired immediately following the acquisition
announcement rather than the impairment. We find that 13% of impaired firm CEOs are
terminated in the year of or year following the deal effective year, whereas 41% are fired in
32
Table IA.C3. Post-deal CEO Turnover for Firms with Goodwill Impairment
This table reports univariate statistics for CEO turnover for the sample of firms experiencing a goodwill
impairment. We track CEO turnover events between the deal announcement and four years after the first
impairment event.
Impairment sample # %
% Turnover between deal announcement year and impairment year + 4 142 45%
Firms subject to internal turnover 118 38%
Firms subject to takeovers 19 6%
Firms subject to bankruptcy 5 2%
% Turnover year of or year after deal effective year (% of total sample) 19 13%
% Turnover year of or year after impairment year (% of total sample) 58 41%
the year of or year following the impairment year.
To summarize, the results in Table IA.C3 indicate that the majority of turnover events
in the impairment sample do not result from anticipated value destruction at the deal an-
nouncement but rather because of deal failure that is signaled by goodwill impairment.
Specifically, CEO turnover events are three times more likely to occur immediately following
the impairment than the deal announcement. This finding implies that the labor market
considers impairment a proxy for deal failure.
To conclude, the results in Appendix C provide strong evidence that firms in the im-
pairment sample experience all symptoms of deal failure—forced CEO turnover, delistings,
bankruptcies, poor accounting, and poor stock performance—supporting our conclusion that
goodwill impairment is a good proxy for deal failure.
33