Finance Working Paper N° 956/2024
February 2024
Mike Burkart
London School of Economics and Political Science, 
Swedish House of Finance, CEPR and ECGI
Samuel Lee
Santa Clara University, Swedish House of Finance 
and ECGI
Paul V oss
HEC Paris 
© Mike Burkart, Samuel Lee and Paul V oss 2024 . 
All rights reserved. Short sections of text, not to 
exceed two paragraphs, may be quoted without 
explicit permission provided that full credit, includ -
ing © notice, is given to the source.
This paper can be downloaded without charge from:
http://ssrn.com/abstract_id=4709037
www.ecgi.global/content/working-papers
The Evolution of the Market for 
Corporate Control
ECGI Working Paper Series in Finance
Working Paper N° 956/2024
February 2024 
Mike Burkart
Samuel Lee 
Paul V oss
The Evolution of the Market for Corporate 
Control
We would like to thank Ulf Axelson, Bruno Biais, Philip Bond, Jean-Edouard Colliard, Adrian Corum, Johan 
Hombert, Deniz Kattwinkel, Doron Levit, Andrey Malenko, Robert Marquez, Martin Oehmke, Alessio 
Piccolo, Zhe Wang, Mark Westerfield, Chenzi Xu, Kostas Zachariadis, and (seminar) audiences at Cambridge 
Corporate Finance Theory Symposium (2023), CEU, Cornell, ESSFM 2023, Federico II, FIRS (2023), FTG 
Summer Meeting (2022), HEC Paris, Law Fin Center (Goethe University), LSE, Mannheim, Queen Mary, 
SAET (2024), Seminars in Economic Theory (SET), SFS Cavalcade North America (2023), Stockholm School 
of Economics, University of Vienna, University of Washington, Vienna Festival of Finance Theory (2022), and 
WFA (2023) for helpful comments and suggestions. Burkart gratefully acknowledges financial support from 
the Economic Social Research Council (ESRC Research Grant ES/S016686/1). 
© Mike Burkart, Samuel Lee and Paul V oss 2024. All rights reserved. Short sections of text, not 
to exceed two paragraphs, may be quoted without explicit permission provided that full credit, 
including © notice, is given to the source.
Abstract
In a canonical takeover model we let an informed large shareholder choose 
between making a bid or initiating a sale to another acquirer. Such takeover 
activism complements direct takeovers because the very choice mitigates the 
asymmetric information problem, thereby improving efficiency. As more investors 
enter the market for corporate control, takeover activism increasingly substitutes 
for direct takeovers and becomes the prevailing mode of effectuating control 
changes. Our theory thus proposes that investor activism has not superseded 
disciplinary acquisitions but instead brought about a new modus operandi: take -
over activism, characterized by a symbiotic relationship between private equity 
and activist hedge funds.
Keywords: Tender offers, takeover activism, free-rider problem, asymmetric information, 
market for corporate control
JEL Classifications: G34
Mike Burkart
Professor of Finance
London School of Economics
Houghton Street
London, WC2A 2AE, United Kingdom
phone: +44 207 107 5049
e-mail: m.c.burkart@lse.ac.uk
Samuel Lee
Associate Professor of Finance
Santa Clara University
500 El Camino Real
Santa Clara, CA California 95053, United States
phone: +1 408 551 3540
e-mail: sslee@scu.edu
Paul V oss*
Assistant Professor of Finance
HEC Paris
1 Rue de la Libération
78350 Jouy-en-Josas, France
e-mail: voss@hec.fr
*Corresponding Author
The Evolution of the Market for Corporate Control ∗
Mike Burkart †, Samuel Lee ‡and Paul Voss§
January 29, 2024
Abstract
In a canonical takeover model we let an informed large shareholder choose between
making a bid or initiating a sale to another acquirer. Such takeover activism comple-
ments direct takeovers because the very choice mitigates the asymmetric information
problem, therebyimprovingefficiency. Asmoreinvestorsenterthemarketforcorporate
control, takeover activism increasingly substitutes for direct takeovers and becomes the
prevailing mode of effectuating control changes. Our theory thus proposes that investor
activism has not superseded disciplinary acquisitions but instead brought about a new
modus operandi: takeover activism, characterized by a symbiotic relationship between
private equity and activist hedge funds.
Keywords: Tender offers, takeover activism, free-rider problem, asymmetric informa-
tion, market for corporate control
JEL Classification: G34.
∗We would like to thank Ulf Axelson, Bruno Biais, Philip Bond, Jean-Edouard Colliard, Adrian Corum,
Johan Hombert, Deniz Kattwinkel, Doron Levit, Andrey Malenko, Robert Marquez, Martin Oehmke, Alessio
Piccolo, ZheWang, MarkWesterfield, ChenziXu, KostasZachariadis, and(seminar)audiencesatCambridge
Corporate Finance Theory Symposium (2023), CEU, Cornell, ESSFM 2023, Federico II, FIRS (2023), FTG
Summer Meeting (2022), HEC Paris, LawFin Center (Goethe University), LSE, Mannheim, Queen Mary,
SAET (2024), Seminars in Economic Theory (SET), SFS Cavalcade North America (2023), Stockholm
School of Economics, University of Vienna, University of Washington, Vienna Festival of Finance Theory
(2022), and WFA (2023) for helpful comments and suggestions. Burkart gratefully acknowledges financial
support from the Economic Social Research Council (ESRC Research Grant ES/S016686/1).
†London School of Economics, Swedish House of Finance, CEPR, ECGI, & FTG
‡Santa Clara University, ECGI, & Swedish House of Finance
§HEC Paris & FTG
1
The lower the stock price, relative to what it could be with more efficient man-
agement, the more attractive the takeover becomes to those who believe that
they can manage the company more efficiently. And the potential return from
the successful takeover and revitalization of [a] poorly run company can be enor-
mous. — Henry G. Manne (1965, p.118)
1 Introduction
The market for corporate control has come a long way since the above quote. First, profes-
sional control-oriented investors such as activist hedge funds and private equity funds have
emergedandarenowcentralplayersinthismarket. 1 Theassetsundermanagementbyhedge
funds globally has seen a 50-fold increase from1997to 2022, and the global buyout deal value
byprivateequityfundshasundergoneamorethan35-foldincreasefrom $30billionin 1995to
$1, 121 billion in2022.2 Second, hostile tender offers were the prominent feature of the mar-
ket in the 1980s, but the mode of control change has since shifted from such direct takeovers
to takeover activism—large shareholders do not take over firms themselves but broker a sale
to outside bidders.
In this paper, we argue that it is the growth (of capital at the disposal) of control-
oriented investors that has led to this shift in the mode of control changes. Our explanation
of this evolution builds on the role that large shareholders have in overcoming information
and coordination problems in the market for corporate control. The novelty of our theory
is to recognize that control-oriented investors need not have ex-ante designated roles on the
buy- or the sell-side. Rather, they can choose to be large shareholders who acquire firms
themselves, or who put firms in play, or be outside bidders for firms that are put in play. In
our theory the optimal role choice depends on the total number of control-oriented investors
1As Coffee (1984) notes, Manne (1965) did not focus on hostile bids or financial acquirers, which were
less prominent at the time, but rather on acquisitions in general. In fact, among those he considered most
apt to identify managerial inefficiencies were competitors, customers, and suppliers of potential targets.
2For hedge funds, see https://www.statista.com/statistics/271771/assets-of-the-hedge-funds-
worldwide/. The number of activist hedge fund campaigns nearly tripled between 1994 and 2016
(Barry et al. (2020)). For private equity, see Bain & Company’s Global Private Equity Re-
port (2014), https://www.bain.com/contentassets/19a87eaf7da54f4090613772d7c10cd1/report_global_
private_equity_report_2014.pdf and Bain & Company’s Global Private Equity Report (2022),https:
//www.bain.com/globalassets/noindex/2022/bain_report_global-private-equity-report-2022.pdf.
2
in the market, and the equilibrium patterns match the major secular trend: the emergence
and rise of takeover activism and the decline of direct takeovers (hostile tender offers).
In the first part of our analysis, we examine what determines at the single-firm level a
large shareholder’s choice between being on the buy- or the sell-side and how this choice
impactstheefficiencyofthecontrolallocation. Tothisend, weaddtotheseminal framework
of Shleifer & Vishny (1986) the option ofinitiating a sale of the firmin lieu of making
a tender offer. More specifically, a large shareholder has private information about the
value improvement that can be realized through restructuring of the firm. Restructuring,
however, requires control. The large shareholder can gain control through a direct takeover
and implement the value improvement herself. Alternatively, she can invite an outside
bidder to take control. In such an invited merger, the large shareholder negotiates on behalf
of all shareholders a binding agreement with the bidder. (While the binding agreement
by assumption precludes dispersed shareholders from free-riding, this is not crucial for our
results as we discuss later in the introduction and show formally in Section 4.) Due to
the lack of prior involvement with the firm, the outside bidder does not know the value
improvement at the time of the merger negotiation. Once in control, the outside bidder has
access to the same restructuring technology3 as the large shareholder, learns the true value
improvement, and implements it.
The equilibrium features a simple cut-off structure: For firms with substantial value
improvements, the large shareholder makes a tender offer and takes the firm over herself,
whereas she initiates a sale to the outside bidder for firms with modest value improvements.
Her choice is driven by the information rents that accrue at opposite ends of the value
improvement distribution. In equilibrium, all firms taken over directly by the large share-
holder receive the same bid price. Consequently, a large shareholder buys a firm with large
value improvements at a discount, whereas she buys a firm with moderately large value
improvements at a premium. With redistribution from moderately large to large firm types,
the information rents in tender offers accrue at the upper end of the value improvement
distribution. For all firm types with modest value improvements, the outside bidder pays in
3We show in an extension that our qualitative results hold when the value improvement has a common
as well as a private (bidder-specific) component.
3
equilibrium the same expected price. Therefore, large shareholders of firms with moderately
small value improvements sell their stakes below their true value, while those of firms with
small value improvements sell them above their true value. With redistribution from moder-
ately small to small firm types, the information rents in invited mergers accrue at the lower
end of the value improvement distribution. Large shareholders owning stakes in firms with
intermediate value improvements thus earn negative information rents from either control
change mode and are left with choosing the “lesser evil.”
In the setting of Shleifer & Vishny (1986), in which direct takeovers are the sole mode of
control change, the conjunction of free-riding behaviour and asymmetric information implies
that control is not always efficiently allocated. Firms with modest value improvements are
nottakenoverandrestructured. Thegainsthatalargeshareholdermakesonherinitialstake
are not sufficient to offset the premium at which she would have to acquire the dispersedly
held shares. By contrast, we show that adding the option to be on the sell-side results
in a fully efficient control allocation. All firms are taken over and restructured either by
the large shareholder or by the outside bidder. The efficiency gains arise because the large
shareholder can choose between being on the buy or sell side, combined with the fact that
selling the stake at a positive (expected) price dominates staying passive irrespective of the
value improvement. That is, informed control sales are a more effective mechanism to bring
about value creating control changes than informed control acquisitions.
Furthermore, takeover activism does not only complement direct takeovers but also
replaces the latter for some firms as the mode of control change. By raising the value of the
large shareholder’s outside option from remaining passive to selling her stake at a positive
price, a tender offer becomes the more profitable option for a smaller set of firms with
substantial value improvements.
To analyse the evolution of themarket for corporate control, we embed the single-firm
model into a market model. There is a continuum of firms, each with a potential value
improvement, among which control investors look for targets. Each control investor chooses
whether to be a large shareholder (e.g., hedge fund) and buy an initial stake or to be a
potential outside bidder (e.g., private equity fund), putting in place human and financial
4
capital, and is randomly matched with a particular firm.4 Thus, there are search frictions
but ex-ante no designated buyers or sellers in our framework.
We characterize the evolution of the market by comparing the market composition as the
number of control investors grows. In the early stage, with relatively few control investors,
all enter the market as large shareholders. Consequently, direct takeovers are the sole
means to effectuate (hostile) control changes, matching the observed pattern from the1980s.
Intuitively, a large shareholder can implement a control change through a direct takeover
herself, whereas an outside bidder has to rely on a large shareholder to initiate a sale to
her. When the market for corporate control is thin, the likelihood of receiving a merger
invitation is simply too small. Hence, all control investors become large shareholders.
Once a sufficient fraction of firms have a large shareholder, entering as a bidder becomes
attractive. Furthermore, as more outside bidders are in the market, it becomes increasingly
more profitable to enter as a large shareholder: A large shareholder cannot only acquire the
firmwithsubstantialvalueimprovements, butsheisalsomorelikelytofindanoutsidebidder
to extend a merger invitation for modest value improvements. Similarly, as the fraction of
firms with a large shareholder grows, it becomes increasingly more profitable to enter as an
outside bidder since the likelihood of receiving a merger invitation increases. Because of this
complementarity, the(expected)profitsofbothlargeshareholdersandoutsidebiddersdonot
erode but keep increasing as more control investors enter the market. In this transformation
phase, control changes are also increasingly more often carried out through takeover activism
relative to direct takeovers. Control investor profits and the relative frequency of takeover
activism keep increasing until all firms are matched with one large shareholder and the
market for corporate control reaches its mature stage. Depending on parameters, some
firms may in the mature stage be matched with two outside bidders who compete in case of
a merger invitation. Alternatively, some firms may not be matched with an outside bidder.
The market for corporate control becomes overall more efficient as the number of control
investors grows. These efficiency gains comprise two effects. In the early stage, in which
4One can interpret the entry decision also as a reduced form model of investors deciding to invest in either
hedge funds or private equity funds since both decisions are ultimately determined by the profitability of
the two strategies.
5
control changes occur only through direct takeovers, the gains stem from a standard “scale”
effect: agrowingnumberofcontrolinvestorsidentifiesagrowingnumberofpotentialtargets.
In the transformation stage, with the rise of takeover activism, an additional source of
gains is the increase in the probability that identified potential targets are successfully
restructured. This reflects that the growing market evolves toward a more efficient mode
of control change, gradually capturing the efficiency gains from takeover activism that we
identify in our single-firm model.
As is well documented, there has been a continuous decline in hostile tender offers since
the late1980 (e.g., Eckbo (2009)) with a contemporaneous rise in shareholder activism (e.g.,
Fos (2017)). In the extant literature, this shift is commonly attributed to the widespread
adoption of takeover defenses and various legal changes that facilitate shareholder activism.
We agree that these changes impact the market for corporate control but contend that they
donotprovideacomprehensiveexplanation. Onaconceptuallevel, takeoverdefensesmerely
necessitate that a control change must be preceded by an activist campaign to remove these
defenses and board resistance.5 After their removal, the control change may equally well be
implemented through a direct hostile takeover or through takeover activism.6
On a factual level, the rise in shareholder activism has not eliminated disciplinary control
changes. Many activist campaigns and the most profitable ones result in outside bidders
such as private equity funds acquiring the firm (Greenwood & Schor 2009, Boyson et al.
2017). Furthermore, control-oriented (going-private) LBOs have not declined but rather in-
creased over this time period (Kaplan & Stromberg 2009, Renneboog & Vansteenkiste 2017).
These empirical observations suggest that there is not a secular shift away from disciplinary
takeovers but a change in how they are carried out. Within our theory, the growth of (funds
under management of) control investors explains the rise of takeover activism characterized
by a “symbiotic relationship between private equity funds and hedge funds.”7 (We discuss
5Levit & Corum (2019) argue that activists who do not want to take over the firm themselves have a
higher chance of winning a merger vote. However, they do not consider the option of a direct takeover by
the activist.
6Indeed, Carl Icahn launched an activist campaign in 2021 to “replace Southwest Gas Holdings’
(SWX) entire board and to commence a tender offer for all common shares at$75 per share in cash.”
CNBC, 2021, https://www.cnbc.com/2021/10/23/carl-icahns-tender-offer-for-southwest-gas-sets-
the-table-for-a-proxy-fight.html
7Financial Times 2007,https://www.ft.com/content/6a3e50b2-1070-11dc-96d3-000b5df10621
6
these empirical developments and proposed interpretations in more detail in Section 3.4.)
In Section 4 we revert to the firm-level analysis to unearth the causes of the efficiency
gains brought about by takeover activism. We begin by showing that the assumption of the
binding merger agreement is not crucial by replicating the firm-level restructuring outcome
in a modified setting: Instead of extending a merger invitation, the large shareholder can
now – under the same bargaining protocol as in the merger - negotiate a sale of her initial
stake with the outside bidder who then subsequently makes a tender offer for the remaining
dispersedly held shares. (As before, the outside bidder learns the value improvement only
once she is in control.) Alternatively, the large shareholder has the option to make a bid
for the firm herself. The equilibrium of this game has the same cut-off structure with an
identical cut-off value, and the market for corporate control remains fully efficient. Firms
with substantial value improvements are acquired by the large shareholder. Firms with
modest value improvements are acquired in a tender offer by the outside bidder after she
acquired the initial stake in a negotiated block trade. All value improvements are realized
because this variant of takeover activism allows to fully separate the asymmetric information
and the free-rider problem. In the block trade, the large shareholder has private information
about the value improvement. Nonetheless, bilateral trade is efficient because there are
known gains from trade. In the subsequent tender offer, the outside bidder faces free-riding
by the dispersed shareholders but does not have an informational advantage, and efficient
trade is again feasible.
Arguably, the outside bidder may learn the value improvement after the block trade but
prior to the tender offer. Nonetheless takeover activism leads to more firms being taken
over and restructured compared to a setting where only the large shareholder can make
a tender offer. By trading the block instead of acquiring the firm, the large shareholder
credibly reveals that the value improvement is not substantial. After the block trade, the
dispersed shareholders expect a moderate value improvement, and the outside bidder makes
a successful bid at a lower price. Hence, more control changes are realized. Still, firms with
a sufficiently small value improvement are not taken over because the gains on the stake
acquired in the block trade are not sufficient to offset the premium at which the outside
7
bidder would have to acquire the dispersedly held shares.
We show that this remaining inefficiency can be completely eliminated if there are suf-
ficiently many bidderslocated in a “bidder chain”. In this extension, each bidder can, after
having acquired the block, either make a tender offer to the dispersed shareholders or sell
the block to the next bidder in the chain.8 Adding more bidders increases efficiency, and
in the limit all value-increasing control changes are realized. Independent of how small the
value improvement is, sufficiently many bidders can collectively signal through the sequence
of block trades that the value improvement is small until one bidder can make a successful
tender offer at a sufficiently low price.
Related literature We build on the canonical framework on large shareholders and
corporate control by Shleifer & Vishny (1986) and expand it by letting the large shareholder
choose between taking the firm over herself or initiating its sale to another party. Subsequent
papers on takeovers with asymmetric information and free-riding by dispersed shareholders
are Hirshleifer & Titman (1990), At et al. (2011), Burkart & Lee (2015, 2016), Marquez
& Yılmaz (2008, 2012), Ekmekci & Kos (2016) and Voss & Kulms (2022). We show that
asymmetric information and free-riding can be overcome when the large shareholder can
choose between being on the buy-side or sell-side of the transaction. None of the above
papers allows for this choice.
There is a large literature on shareholder activism as surveyed by e.g., Edmans & Holder-
ness (2017). Only four papers in this literature allow the large shareholder to choose between
intervention modes: Shleifer & Vishny (1986), Bebchuk & Hart (2001), Maug (1998), and
Burkart & Lee (2022).9 Shleifer & Vishny (1986) and Bebchuk & Hart (2001) compare
takeovers and proxy fights as alternative ways for the large shareholder to gain control. Our
focus is not on how a given party gains control, but on the decision of this party to carry
out the control change herself or to invite another party to acquire control. In his compari-
son between takeovers and shareholder activism Maug (1998) emphasises how stock market
8Contrary to the typical intermediation chains in the literature following Glode & Opp (2016), each
bidder becomes perfectly informed before making an offer.
9We abstract here from exit as an intervention mode. There is, of course, a literature on comparing
voice and exit in a variety of settings, see e.g., Hirschman (1970), Edmans & Manso (2010), Dasgupta &
Piacentino (2015), Edmans et al. (2018), Levit (2018), Broccardo et al. (2020) and Voss (2022).
8
liquidity affects the large shareholder’s choice of intervention mode. Market liquidity plays
no role in our analysis, whose distinct feature is that the large shareholder chooses which
party ultimately acquires control and implements the restructuring. Burkart & Lee (2022)
first contrast direct takeover and regular shareholder activism, and then introduce takeover
activism as a third intervention mode. In their moral hazard framework takeover activism is
typically superior because it provides stronger incentives than regular activism and avoids
the free-rider problem which plagues direct takeovers. We study the free-rider problem
within an asymmetric information setting and show how the choice between takeover ac-
tivism and takeovers results in an efficient control allocation. Moreover, a binding merger
agreement is not crucial to our results, as we show in Section 4. All these four papers con-
sider governance interventions at the firm level and none examines the choice of governance
interventions at the market level or the evolution of the market for corporate control. This
also applies to Levit & Corum (2019), who show why activists have an inherent advantage
to campaign for a merger compared to bidders because the latter as buyers have an inherent
conflict of interest. Their model abstracts from the free-rider problem and only allows direct
takeovers with some exogenous probability. Gorbenko & Malenko (2022) give a rationale
for why control sales of common value assets are initiated by sellers and rarely by buyers.
Finally, we also consider bidder chains to overcome asymmetric information and free-riding
as a novel form of intermediation chain à la Glode & Opp (2016) in Section 4.3. In that
section, we discuss papers related to this analysis.
2 Control Change in the Firm
Our model presupposes a large shareholder with sufficient influence to remove takeover
defenses, respectively, to put pressure on the board to allow a control change. Crucially,
irrespective of how the large shareholder overcomes potential barriers, she needs to decide
whether to acquire the firm herself through a direct takeover or to put the firm in play and
broker an acquisition by an outside bidder. Therefore, we focus our analysis on the large
shareholder’s choice of which side of the takeover she wants to be on and do not explicitly
9
model the removal of potential takeover defenses or board resistance.
2.1 Model
Consider a firm with a one share - one vote structure and a mass 1 of shares. A large
shareholder L owns a minority block α∈(0, ¯α), while the remaining 1−αshares are
distributed among a continuum of shareholders whose individual holdings are equal and
indivisible. For simplicity, the firm value under the incumbent management is normalized
to 0.
The firm value can increase toV if the firm is taken over and restructured. The dispersed
shareholders only know thatV is drawn from [0, 1] according to a continuously differen-
tiable density function f with full support and cumulative distribution functionF. By
contrast, L knows the realized value ofV and possesses the restructuring capability to
implement the value improvement if she takes over the firm. For ease of exposition, we also
refer to the value improvementV as L’s type.
The two preceding paragraphs describe the basic setting of Shleifer & Vishny (1986) to
which we add the option to sell the firm to an outside bidderB. Initially,B does not own a
stake and due to a lack of prior involvement with the firm merely knows the distribution of
V. However, she has access to the same restructuring technology asL. That is, if she takes
over the firm, she learns the realized value ofV and can also implement it. In practice,
one can think of such outside bidders securing funds and accumulating human capital to
be prepared for a possible acquisition. For simplicity, we do not model such preparatory
efforts.
After observingV, the large shareholder can choose between making a tender offer or
getting the firm taken over by the outside bidder. We refer to the latter strategy inter-
changeably as merger invitation or takeover activism. Figure 1 illustrates the sequence of
events.
Tender offer: The large shareholder makes a take-it-or-leave-it cash bid at a price
P per share. The offer is conditional and therefore becomes void if fewer than1/2−α
shares are tendered, that is, ifL fails to gain control. There are no takeover costs
10
other than the bid price, and the incumbent management is by assumption unable
or unwilling to make a counter-bid, despite being opposed to the restructuring. IfL
makes a bid, target shareholders decide simultaneously and non-cooperatively whether
to tender their shares. If the bid succeeds, L takes control and realizes the value
improvementV. Otherwise, the incumbent management remains in control, and the
firm value continues to be0.
Merger invitation: The large shareholder negotiates on behalf of all target share-
holders a sale of the firm to the outside bidder.10 We model the negotiation over
the merger price as a simple Nash bargaining game: With probabilityρ, L makes a
take-it-or-leave-it offer for all shares to be bought at pricePL, andB either accepts
or rejects the offer. With the complementary probability (1−ρ), B offers to buy
all shares at pricePB, andL accepts or rejects the offer. If an offer is rejected, the
incumbent management remains in control, and the firm value continues to be0. If
either of the offers is accepted, all shareholders must sell their shares at that price.
Having acquired the firm,B gets to know the value improvementV and implements
it. Since the merger agreement is binding, it circumvents the free-rider problem. As
pointed out in the introduction and substantiated in Section 4, this is, however, not
crucial for our results.
As in Shleifer & Vishny (1986), signaling by the large shareholder and coordination
problems among dispersed shareholders give raise to multiple equilibria. To obtain a unique
equilibrium outcome we impose the following three assumptions: (A1) Target shareholders
tender their shares toLif the priceP weakly exceeds the expected post-takeover share value;
(A2) the beliefs about off-equilibrium moves satisfy the credible beliefs criterion of Grossman
& Perry (1986); and (A3) the type distribution has a log-concave density function. This is
a common assumption in signaling games with threshold strategies (Bagnoli & Bergstrom
2005). We point out the role of each assumption where it is material.
10In practice, boards have the prerogative powers to enter into merger negotiations. Therefore, a large
shareholder or activist must either convince the incumbent board, or alternatively take control of the board,
to initiate merger negotiations. We abstract from howL achieves this. We do not allow forL to negotiate
a merger with herself. This is in accordance with Levit & Corum (2019) who argue that ifL is on the
buy-side, she cannot get board approval for the deal.
11
L privately knowsV
Target shareholders
tender or not
Tender offerP
Nature chooses whether
L or B makes the offer
L offersPL;
B accepts or rejects
ρ∈(0, 1)
B offersPB;
L accepts or rejects
1−ρ
Merger invitation
Figure 1: Sequence of events.
2.2 Benchmark
To highlight how the option of extending a merger invitation affects the functioning of the
market for corporate control, we first solve as a benchmark the model without the outside
bidder. This corresponds to the basic setting in Shleifer & Vishny (1986) (SectionII) and
also to the left-hand side of Figure 1.
When the large shareholder makes a bidP, dispersed shareholders update their beliefs
about the value improvement, respectivelyL’s type, and condition their expectation on
the offered price. Since no shareholder considers herself pivotal for the outcome, each
shareholder tenders only if the offered price at least matches the expected post-takeover
share value (Grossman & Hart 1980). Consequently, a successful tender offer must satisfy
the free-rider conditionP≥E[V|P ].
Assumption A1 ensures a unique outcome for any offered priceP: When the free-rider
condition is violated, the bid fails. Otherwise, success is the unique equilibrium outcome
and all shareholders tender their shares. In any successful bid offered in equilibrium,L
offers the same price since allL types would prefer the lowest successful bid if different bids
were to succeed.11
Given a bidP, shareholders infer in equilibrium that such a bid must come from anyL
11Assumption A1 rules out (semi-)separating equilibria in which offers succeed at different prices. Allowing
shareholders to play probabilistic tendering strategies generates separating equilibrium outcomes (Hirshleifer
& Titman 1990).
12
type for whom such a bid is profitable. Since all shareholders tender in a successful offer,
L is willing to offer at mostV for the (1−α) shares. Thus, her participation constraint is
V−(1−α)P≥0, and the shareholders’ conditional expectation about the post-takeover
share value is E[V|P ] = E[V|V ≥(1−α)P ].A tender offer is made in equilibrium if the
above participation constraint of the large shareholder and the free-rider condition
P≥E[V|V ≥(1−α)P ] (1)
are satisfied. There is a continuum of prices that satisfies these two conditions and can be
supported as Perfect Bayesian Equilibria. The reason is that bidsP for which (1) is slack
can be supported as Perfect Bayesian Equilibria by attributing any deviationP′<P to the
highest type (V = 1). Under these beliefs, such deviations violate the free-rider condition
and thus fail.
Assumption A2 selects the minimum bid equilibriumP∗= E[V|V ≥(1−α)P∗] as the
unique equilibrium. The credible beliefs criterion (Grossman & Perry (1986)) imposes that
a deviation from a Perfect Bayesian Equilibrium price is attributed, consistent with prior
beliefs, toall and onlytypes that would gain from this deviation. This eliminates all bids
P∈(P∗, 1] for which the free rider condition (1) is slack as equilibrium candidates.
Lemma 1. Shleifer & Vishny (1986) In the unique Perfect Sequential Equilibrium, the
large shareholder makes a bid for allV ≥V∗
0 offering the same priceP∗= E[V|V ≥V∗
0 ].
0 1V∗
0
tender offerno control change
Figure 2: Cutoff equilibrium with only tender offers.
Because all successful types pay the same price P∗= E[V|V ≥V∗
0 ], L types with
V ∈[V∗
0,P∗) pay more than the true value improvement whereas types withV ∈(P∗, 1]
pay less. Such mispricing detersL types whose gain on their initial stake is too small to
compensate for the loss at which they would have to buy the(1−α)shares. More specifically,
13
since L’s payoff from a successful bid
αV+ (1−α)(V−P ). (2)
is monotonically increasing inV for a givenP, the equilibrium features a simple cut-off
structure as illustrated in Figure 2: All and only types above the cut-offV∗
0 make a bid
offeringP∗= E[V|V ≥V∗
0 ], and the cut-off thresholdV∗
0 is the solution to
αV∗
0 + (1−α)
(
V∗
0 −E[V|V ≥V∗
0 ]
)
= 0.
Asymmetric information has two consequences. First, it leads to redistribution among
successful types: TypesV ∈(P∗, 1] can extract information rents at the expense of types
V ∈[V∗
0,P∗). Second, it exacerbates the free-rider problem: TypesV < V∗
0 do not make
a bid, that is, there is a cut-off ”at the bottom.” This reflects thatL as a buyer has an
incentive to understate V, which we refer to as asmart buyer problem (Burkart & Lee
2016). By contrast, under full informationP∗=V for each type, and all types would make
a successful bid.
2.3 Modes of Control Change
Since we just have established the large shareholder’s payoff from a tender offer, we merely
need to work out her payoff from a merger invitation to determine how she chooses between
the two control change modes (or remaining passive). WhenL extends a merger invitation,
either she orB make a take-it-or-leave-it offer with probabilitiesρand 1−ρ, respectively.
Thus,L’s expected profit from selling her initial stakeαto the outside bidder is
α[ρPL + (1−ρ)PB]. (3)
A failed negotiation leaves the incumbent management in control and firm value at0. Hence,
B’s offer optimal offer isP∗
B = 0, and she extracts the full surplus. When it isL’s turn
to make an offer, she cannot ask for more thanB’s posterior expectation about the firm
14
value E[V|invite]. Given B either accepts or rejects an offer, there can only be one price
PL offered in equilibrium byL and accepted byB since allL types would prefer the highest
accepted PL otherwise.
Yet, any priceP′
L strictly smaller than E[V|invite] being accepted byB can also be
supported as a Perfect Bayesian Equilibrium by attributing any deviation fromP′
L to the
lowest type (V = 0). In parallel to the tender offer subgame, the credible beliefs criterion
(Assumption A2) eliminates all Perfect Bayesian Equilibrium for whichPL is less than
the posterior expectation ofV. That is, the “maximum ask” offerP∗
L = E[V|invite] being
accepted byB is the unique Perfect Sequential Equilibrium of the merger invitation subgame
when L makes the offer.
Giventheoffers P∗
L andP∗
B,L’sexpectedpayofffromamergerinvitationis αρE[V|invite]
which does not depend on her own type. Consequently, below average types among those
who extend a merger invitation sell their stake (the firm) at a price above the true value,
while above-average types sell at less than the true value. This reflects thatL as an informed
seller has an incentive to overstateV, that is, mergers are plagued by thelemons problem
(Akerlof 1970). Thus, information rents accrue to the low types at the expense of the high
types which is the opposite redistribution pattern than in the tender offer subgame.
The expected payoff to L from a merger invitation is a positive cash consideration.
Hence, extending a merger invitation dominates remaining passive for any type. Unlike the
merger payoff,L’s tender offer payoff depends on her true type. For a given set of prices
P ={P,PB,PL}, her choice between the two control change modes therefore depends on
her true type. Let∆(V,P) denote the difference between her tender offer profit (2) and her
expected merger profit (3):
∆(V,P) =V−(1−α)P  
Direct Takeover
−α[ρPL + (1−ρ)PB]  
Merger Invitation
. (4)
Since ∆(V,P)is increasing inV for a given set of pricesP, there is a cut-off type above which
all L types prefer to make a tender offer. Furthermore, the log-concave density function
f(V ) (Assumption A3) ensures that there is a unique cut-off type.
15
Proposition 1.In the unique Perfect Sequential Equilibrium, the large shareholder extends
a merger invitation for allV ∈[0,V∗
1 ) and makes a bid for allV ∈[V∗
1, 1]. The equilibrium
prices areP∗= E[V|V≥V∗
1 ], P∗
B = 0, andP∗
L = E[V|V ≤V∗
1 ].
0 1V∗
1
tender offermerger invite
Figure 3: Cut-off equilibrium with tender offer and merger invitation.
HighL types acquire the firm themselves, while lowL types choose to invite the outside
bidder to take the firm over. Intuitively, a tender offer allows the large shareholders to reap
the full value improvement of her initial stake, whereas she sells it at some given price in a
merger invitation. Clearly, the former is more attractive to highL types, whereas selling at
a pooled price appeals to lowL types.
The partial separation of types, which is absent in signaling theories of both external
finance and takeovers, is rooted in the ability of the informed party to choose to be either
a seller or buyer. This choice prevents pooling on one control change mode because an
informed acquisition (smart buyer problem) and an informed sale (lemons problem) imply
opposite distributions of information rents across types (see dashed line in Figure 4). In-
formation rents accrue “at the top” in the tender offer but “at the bottom” in the merger
invitation. Hence, highL types are drawn to the former and lowL types to the latter, while
intermediate types pick the “lesser evil.” The option to choose between the smart buyer
problem and the lemons problem is indeed instrumental for achieving separation. This can
be seen by the fact that security design cannot achieve a finer type separationwithin the
smart buyer problem (Burkart & Lee 2015) or the lemons problem (Myers & Majluf 1984,
Nachman & Noe 1994).12
These information-theoretic arguments accord well with intuition. Wary of being short-
changed, target shareholders demand a high price in a tender offer. Large shareholders with
12Introducing restricted cash bids or cash-equity bids in our model does not alter the result that, within
each intervention mode, there only exists a pooling outcome, nor the “direction” in which information rents
shift payoffs across types. The only effect is that the magnitude of redistribution across types is reduced
(At et al. 2011), which in our model has no efficiency implications, as allL types are taken over.
16
Blockholder’s profit
(1−α)(V−E[V|V≥V∗
1 ])
Information rent
V∗
1
0 V
1
tender offer (smart buyer)
αρE[V|V≤V∗
1 ]−αV
merger invitation (lemon’s problem)
Figure 4: The large shareholder’s profit and information rent as a function of her type. The
graph is based on a numeric example in whichV is uniformly distributed on[0, 1] and αis
25%. The cut-off isV∗
1 ≈0.67. In the benchmark without an outside bidder, the cut-off
is V∗
0 = 0.6. Hence, merger invitations primarily complement rather than replace tender
offers here. Last, ifαis reduced to 10%, the cut-off increases toV∗
1 ≈0.86, illustrating that
smaller initial stakes favor merger invitations.
small(er) value improvementsV may find these demands excessive and prefer to initiate a
sale to a third party. Conversely, an outside bidder, concerned about overpaying, may refuse
to pay a high price. Hence, large shareholders with large(r) value improvementsV prefer to
take over the firm themselves.
Merger invitations and tender offers appeal toL types at the opposite ends of the dis-
tribution. Still, the former does not merely complement the latter.
Corollary 1.ForV ∈[V∗
0,V∗
1 ] takeover activism substitutes tender offers. ForV ∈[0,V∗
0 )
takeover activism complements tender offers, thereby ensuring an efficient allocation of con-
trol.
In the benchmark without an outside bidder, firm typesV ∈[0,V∗
0 ) are not taken over
and the value improvement is forgone. Once the large shareholder has the option to extend
a merger invitation, all these firm types are taken over by the outside bidder. Thus, merger
17
invitations complement tender offers, and the ability to choose the control change mode
improves efficiency.
In addition, firm typesV ∈[V∗
0,V∗
1 ) are now taken over by the outside bidder rather
than by the large shareholder herself as in the benchmark. FewerL types choose a tender
offer, that is,V∗
1 > V∗
0 , because the expected payoff from a merger invitation is positive
compared to zero when remaining passive. Hence, the marginal typeV∗
0 and some types
above her now prefer a merger invitation to a tender offer.
Strikingly, the control allocation is fully efficient, that is, all firms are taken over and
restructured (Proposition 1), and this holds true for any initial stake sizeα >0 however
small. By contrast, the inefficiency in the benchmark, respectively in Shleifer & Vishny
(1986), increases as the initial stakeαbecomes smaller. In Shleifer & Vishny (1986) and the
ensuing literature, the inefficiency results from the interaction of the free-rider problem with
asymmetric information about the post-takeover firm value: neither friction alone impairs
efficiency (Burkart & Lee 2015). Without free-riding the large shareholder could succeed by
offering a price equal to the share value under the current management plusϵ, and without
asymmetric information she would succeed by offering the true post-takeover share value.
At first glance, it may seem that the control alloation in Proposition 1 is fully efficient
because the merger invitation option allows to circumvent the free-rider problem. This
feature of the merger invitation is, however, not crucial for the efficiency result. In fact,
full efficiency obtains even if one were to impose a merger price that satisfy the free-rider
condition, that is, setPL = PB = E[V|invite]. Furthermore, we show in Section 4 that
Proposition 1 also holds under an alternative variation of takeover activism that does not
impose a merger on the dispersed shareholders.
The key feature of takeover activism responsible for the efficiency result is that the large
shareholders is an informed seller rather than an informed buyer. In a tender offerL’s payoff
isV−(1−α)P whichis negativewhenthepoolingprice P issufficientlylargerthantheactual
value improvementV. Consequently, lowL types prefer remaining passive to making a bid
(which gives rise to the inefficiency in (Shleifer & Vishny 1986)). In contrast,L’s expected
payoff in a mergerα[ρPL + (1−ρ)PB] is independent of her type and in expectations a
18
strictly positive cash consideration. Hence, the merger invitation dominates the option of
remaining passive for allV. Indeed, even ifL were restricted to only extending a merger
invitation, allL types would be taken over by the outside bidder, and the outcome would
be efficient. Fundamentally, when free-riding and asymmetric information problems impede
value creating takeovers informed control sales (merger invitations) are a more effective
mechanism than informed control acquisitions (tender offers).
This also explains why the market for corporate control in Proposition 1 is efficient
irrespective of the size ofL’s stake. Smaller stakesαreduce the payoff from either control
change mode. While this makes the tender offer unprofitable for moreL types, the merger
invitation remains profitable for allL types as long asα >0. Hence, smaller stakes α
increase the cut-offV∗
1 , making takeover activism more likely.
Since larger toeholds decrease the cut-off V∗
1 , both “bid” priceP∗= E[V|V ≥V∗
1 ]
and merger “ask” priceP∗
L = E[V|V ≤V∗
1 ] decrease withα. Note that from an ex ante
perspective a smaller stakeαthus leads to a decrease in tender offer profits due to the
smaller stake and the increased bid price thatL needs to pay. By contrast, the effect on
merger profits is ambiguous: the smaller stake reduces profit, whereas the higher per share
ask price that L receives increases profit. Hence, expected merger profits fall for some
parameter values but increase for others. Overall, however,L’s expected profits decrease as
the toehold shrinks.
2.4 Discussion of Firm Modeling Assumptions
Value-decreasing control changes.Allowing also for value-decreasing control transfers,
i.e., V < 0, does not undermine the efficient allocation of control in our framework. When
the large shareholder learns thatV is negative, she opts for a merger invitation as she does
for small positive realizations ofV. This lowers the ask price in the merger negotiation
which, in turn, shifts down the cutoffV∗
1 . Having acquired the firm, the bidder learns that
restructuring decreases firm value and refrains from implementing it since she internalizes
the full cost as the sole owner. If there are some private benefits from restructuring that
exceed the value destruction, the bidder would restructure which would be efficient.
19
Counter-bids. When L opts for a tender offer, our model neither allowsB to submit
a counter-bid nor L to respond and revise her initial bid. One may suspect that this
restriction affects the control change mode thatL chooses in equilibrium. Yet, precluding
B from competing after L made an initial bid is without loss of generality. The reason
is that any winning bid byB would result in an expected loss due to the winner’s curse.
Suppose L bidsP andB were to make a winning counter-bidP′. This bid must satisfy the
free-rider conditionP′≥E[V|P ]. Unlike the dispersed shareholders,L tenders her block
only ifV <P′. Consequently,B acquires all shares if the bid is overpriced but merely1−α
shares if the bid is underpriced, therefore making an expected loss.
Bidding competition. While the bidder does not want to counter a tender offer by
L, another bidder may want to compete withB after a merger invitation. In this case, the
merger invitation transforms into letting the bidders compete in a standard second-price
auction. In our common value framework, all bidders (andL) have the same restructuring
capability. Hence, L’s merger payoff with two bidders (or more) is the same as if she had
full bargaining power in the bilateral negotiations (ρ= 1). Thus, competition results in a
higher merger price, making takeover activism relatively more attractive, that is, increasing
the cutoffV∗.
Heterogeneous restructuring capabilities.In our common value model, a merger
invitation signals a lower value improvement and mergers are associated with lower prices
and returns compared to tender offers. In practice, large shareholders and outside bidders
differ in their ability to improve firm value. While some activist shareholders focus on
governance-oriented strategies, outside bidders, such as specialized private equity funds or
non-financial bidders, aim to exploit synergies. If one adds idiosyncratic restructuring abili-
ties to our common value framework, merger invitations typically lead on average to higher
prices and returns compared to tender offers. We provide a formal analysis in Appendix
A.1.
By way of illustration, consider two hypothetical target firms. For target1 there are
multiple bidders who can exploit large synergies. Anticipating a high price due to competi-
tion among these bidders, the large shareholder is very likely to opt for a merger invitation,
20
respectively, initiating a bidding competition. By contrast, bidders for firm2 have no such
synergies andL is therefore more likely to take over the firm herself. While in both firms
tender offer prices are larger than merger prices, the average tender offer price is lower than
that of the average merger. The reason is that when there are large value improvements due
to synergies, they are more often implemented through a merger with an outside bidder.
Consistentwithanextendedframeworkwithheterogeneousrestructuringabilities, Boyson
et al. (2017) find larger expected acquisition premia and returns if outside bidders take over
a firm relative to incumbent shareholders. Boyson et al. (2017) hypothesize that “[t]he lower
premia could reflect the lack of synergies available to hedge fund buyers.”
3 Control Changes in the Market
In the previous section, we determined when the large shareholder opts for a direct takeover
and when for a merger invitation. This allows us to now study the decision of control
investors to assume the role of a large shareholder or of an outside bidder as the market for
corporate control develops.
3.1 Model
Consider an economy with a continuum of ex ante identical firms of measure one. As in
the firm-level model, each firm has a current (normalized) value of 0 and a potential value
improvementV ∼F[0, 1], distributed identically and independently across firms. The value
improvement is realized through restructuring, which requires a control change. At the
outset, no firm is matched with a large shareholder or an outside bidder. Rather, there is a
measuren of control investors. These investors are ex ante not designated large shareholders
or outside bidders but choose in which role to enter the market.
Large Shareholder: A control investor can buy an initial minority stakeα∈(0,α)
in a firm. For simplicity, she can acquire the stake at the current share value of
0.13 By virtue of becoming a large shareholder, she learnsV privately. If there are
13Clearly, rational investors would anticipate the possible value improvement due to restructuring, and
21
multiple large shareholders in the same firm, we assume that a “lead”L is determined
randomly. All otherLs sell their stakes to her or to the outside bidder. As a result, the
expected payoff ofL is independent of the number ofLs in the same firm, substantially
simplifying things, and in particular allowing analytical solutions. (We discuss in
Section 3.3 how multipleLs may affect their profits and ultimately the chosen mode
of control transfer.) Furthermore,αis sufficiently small so that the combined stake of
multipleLs never exceeds1/2. Hence, a control change requires either a direct takeover
by the leadL or a sale to an outside bidder.
Outside bidder: Alternatively, a control investor can choose to become an outside
bidder for a particular firm. We think of this as the investor setting aside financial
and human capital to be prepared and ready to acquire the firm if invited by aL.
If there are multipleBs and at least oneL in a firm, extending a merger invitation
transforms into letting thoseBs compete in a second price auction. As discussed in
Section 2.4, competition between two or more bidders yields zero bidder profits in
our common value setting and is isomorphic toL having all the bargaining power in
merger negotiations (ρ= 1).
A control investor cannot perform her chosen role in any arbitrary firm due to, for
example, search frictions, lack of industry expertise, or capital constraints. To capture such
limitations, each control investor with her chosen role is randomly matched to a single firm
according to the subsequent matching protocol: LetnL (nB) denote the measure of control
investors entering the market as large shareholders (outside bidders) withn =nL +nB. For
nL≤1 each L is randomly assigned to a firm such that a fractionnL of firms is matched
with oneL. In particular, there are no firms with multipleLs ifnL≤1. FornL > 1, eachL
is randomly allocated to a firm such that a measure (nL−⌊nL⌋) has⌈nL⌉Ls and a measure
(⌈nL⌉−nL) has⌊nL⌋Ls.14 Matching ofBs is independent and works analogously.
To portray the evolution of the market for corporate control we compare the market
composition (n∗
L,n∗
B) as the measure n of control investors increases. We consider the
consequently the price at which the control investor could acquire her stake would be above the current
share value. We discuss this in more detail in Section 3.3.
14⌊nL⌋gives the highest integer smaller thannL and⌈nL⌉gives the smallest integer larger thannL.
22
following equilibrium.
Definition1. An equilibrium of the entry subgame for a given measuren of control investors
is characterized by the measures(n∗
L,n∗
B) of L and B such that neither anyL nor anyB
has an incentive to deviate given the chosen roles of all other investors andn =n∗
L +n∗
B.
3.2 Choosing Roles in the Market for Corporate Control
Let ΠL(V ) and ΠB(V ) denote the equilibrium payoff of a large shareholder and an outside
bidder, respectively. When the firm is not matched with aB, L’s payoff is
E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ] =
∫ 1
V∗
0
V−(1−α)E[V|V ≥V∗
0 ]dF(V ).
This is simply the expected profit from a direct takeover as in the benchmark (Section 2.2).
Conditional on the firm being matched with oneB, L’s payoff is
E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] =
∫ V∗
1
0
αρE[V|V ≤V∗
1 ]dF(V ) +
∫ 1
V∗
1
V−(1−α)E[V|V ≥V∗
1 ]dF(V ).
This is the sum of the expected revenues from selling the stake in an invited merger and
the expected profit from a direct takeover. As discussed in Section 2.3, a direct takeover is
less likely than in the benchmark (V∗
1 >V ∗
0 ) because the expected sale price in a merger is
strictly positive. When the firm is matched with two (or more) bidders,L’s payoff is
E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
2 ] =
∫ V∗
2
0
αE[V|V ≤V∗
2 ]dF(V ) +
∫ 1
V∗
2
V−(1−α)E[V|V ≥V∗
2 ]dF(V ).
The cut-off value for a direct takeover,V∗
2 , is in this case even higher because the price in
the bidding competition is the expected post-merger share value. Recall that multipleLs
in the same firm do by assumption not affectΠL(V ).
An outside bidder who is matched with a firm with at least oneL receives the expected
merger profit of
E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] =
∫ V∗
1
0
V−ρE[V|V ≤V∗
1 ]dF(V ).
23
In any other constellation, her expected payoff is zero. Either there is noL, and she never
receives a merger invitation, or competition with otherBs obliterates expected profits.
For some parameter values (α, ρ, andf(V )), E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]< E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ]
such that no control investor ever enters the market asB. Clearly, ifL’s payoff when the firm
is not matched with aB exceedsB’s payoff when the firm is matched with aL, becoming aL
is the dominant strategy for any measuren of control investors. To focus on the interesting
case where both roles are viable we assume E[ΠB(V )|V∗= V∗
1 ] > E[ΠL(V )|V∗= V∗
0 ]
(Assumption A4).15
Proposition 2. There are three stages in the evolution of the market for corporate control:
• Early stage ( n < n): All control investors enter as large shareholders and their
profits are independent ofn.
• Transformation stage ( n∈[n,n]): Control investors enter as large shareholders
and bidders. Both make the same expected profit which strictly increases inn.
• Mature stage (n> n): Control investors beyondn enter only as large shareholders,
and control investor profits attain their maximum and are constant inn.
Figures 5a and 5b depict the entry decisions as the measuren of control investors in-
creases. In a thin market (n < n), all control investors enter as large shareholders. L
acquires the firm herself whenever the value improvement is large (V ≥V∗
0 ), thereby gen-
erating a strictly positive expected payoffE[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ]. By contrast, a bidder makes
zero profit unless there is aL in the firm who extends a merger invitation. With relatively
few control investors the likelihood of receiving a merger invitation is too small, even if all
others were to choose to be aL. Thus, the redn∗
B line in Figures5a and 5b is flat forn≤n,
whereas the bluen∗
L line increases one-to-one withn.
Given E[ΠB(V )|V∗= V∗
1 ] > E[ΠL(V )|V∗= V∗
0 ] (by Assumption A4), there exists a
measure of control investorsn < 1 such that becoming an outside bidder becomes equally
attractive as being a large shareholder, that is,E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ] =nE[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ].
15Assumption 4 is more likely to hold whenρandαare small. For instance, withV∼U[0, 1] andα= 0.1,
Assumption 4 is satisifed wheneverρ<0.958851.
24
(a) E[Π B(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]> E[Π L(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]
 (b) E[Π B(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]< E[Π L(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]
Figure 5: Equilibrium measuresn∗
L and n∗
B as a function of the market sizen.
Once n crosses this threshold the market enters its transformation stage in which control
investors assume both roles. Importantly, a complementarity arises and either role becomes
more profitable as more control investors enter the market. The expected payoff ofB is
strictly increasing inn∗
L because the probability of a merger invitation increases. Conversely,
the expected payoff ofL is increasing inn∗
B because it increases the likelihood of being able
to extend a merger invitation when the value improvement is low and the direct takeover is
not profitable.
For a givenn∈[n,n], control investors are indifferent between the two roles in equilib-
rium. As long asn∗
B < 1 and n∗
L < 1, the equilibrium entry condition is
(1−n∗
B)E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ] +n∗
BE[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] =n∗
LE[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] (5)
There are two cases of relative entry rates that satisfy condition (5). ForE[ΠB(V )|V∗=
V∗
1 ]> E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] being an outside bidder in a firm with a large shareholder is more
profitable than vice versa (Case a). Therefore, more control investors enter initially asBs,
andn∗
B reaches 1 before n∗
L does. That is, all firms are matched with aB before every firm
has been matched with aL. OncenB≥1, the equilibrium entry condition becomes
(n∗
B−1)E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
2 ] + (2−n∗
B)E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] =
n∗
L(2−n∗
B)E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] (6)
25
When control investors now enter asB, some firms end up with twoBs who each makes
zero profits either because of the bidding competition or because the firm does not (yet) have
aL. At the same time, the payoff ofL is increasing since the sale price may be determined
in a bidding competition rather than in a merger negotiation. Consequently, more control
investors enter asL than asB to meet condition (6). Still, the expected profits ofLs and
Bs keep increasing because there are moreBs andLs in the market. This holds true until
the transformation stage ends and all firms have oneL (n∗
L = 1). These are the reasons why
the redn∗
B line in the interval[n,n] is initially steeper than the bluen∗
L line untiln∗
B = 1
and then flatter in Figure5a.
For E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]> [ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ], being a large shareholder in a firm matched
with a bidder is more profitable than vice versa (Case b). Entry condition (5) implies in
this case that more control investors enter asLs than asB until the transformation stage
ends and each firm has oneL(n∗
L = 1) but not necessarily oneB (n∗
B < 1). Accordingly,
the bluen∗
L line is steeper in the interval[n,n] and always above the redn∗
B line in Figure
5b.
Once each firm is matched with a large shareholder (n∗
L = 1), the market for corporate
control has reached its mature stage (n≥n). The expected payoff of eachB no longer
depends on nL. The reason is that in each firm aL already initiates for sure a merger
negotiation or a bidding competition for low value improvements (unless the firm is not
matched with oneB). By contrast, the expected payoff ofL still increases innB because it
makes either a bidding competition (case a) or a merger invitation (case b) more likely for
low value improvements. In either case, however, moreBs entering would violate equilib-
rium condition (6), respectively condition (5), so no more control investors enter asB. By
Assumption A4, multipleLs in a firm do not dilute the expected payoff of eachL. Conse-
quently, all control investors beyondn enter asLs. Hence, the redn∗
B line is flat forn≥n
in Figures 5a and 5b, whereas the bluen∗
L line increases one-to-one withn. In this mature
stage, the expected payoffs ofBs and ofLs are the same and reach their highest level.
The equilibrium market composition (n∗
L,n∗
B) as a function of the measuren of control
investors determines which mode of control change is more prevalent as the market for
26
corporate control matures.
Proposition 3. Relative to direct takeovers, takeover activism becomes more likely as the
measuren of control investor increases.
Figures 6a and 6b depict the relative frequency of takeover activism and direct takeovers
as more control investors enter the market. In a thin market for corporate control (n<n ),
only large shareholders enter. Control changes are exclusively carried out through direct
takeovers which matches the 1980s with the emergence of hostile takeovers and corporate
raiders (Holmstrom & Kaplan (2001)). The ratio of takeover activism to direct takeovers
remains constant at0 in Figures 6a and 6b.
(a) E[Π B(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]> E[Π L(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]
 (b) E[Π B(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]< E[Π L(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]
Figure 6: Equilibrium frequency of takeover activism relative to outright tender offers as a
function of the market sizen.
Once the market for corporate control is in the transformation stage (n≥n), some
control investors start entering as outside bidders, giving rise to first incidences of takeover
activism. As the market for corporate control expands further (largern), takeover activism
becomes more prevalent due to the asymmetric impact that moreLs andBs have on the
mode of control change. MoreBs bring about more control changes because takeovers are
realized also for low value improvements through takeover activism. At the same time direct
takeovers are being replaced by takeover activism for value improvementsV ∈[V∗
0,V∗
1 ].
That is, an increase in n∗
B leads to more merger invitations in part at the expense of
direct takeovers. By contrast, moreLs bring about more control changes but do not affect
the relative frequency of direct takeovers and takeover activism. This is becauseLs are
27
necessary for either mode of control change. Hence, takeover activism becomes increasingly
more frequent forn∈[n,n), as the ratio in Figures 6a and 6b shows.
For E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]> E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] (case a) the relative frequency of takeover
activism increases at a slower rate oncen∗
B reaches 1. Given the firm has aL, a secondB
leads to a substitution of direct takeovers with takeover activism forV ∈[V∗
1,V∗
2 ] because
bidding competition results in a higher sale price. The secondB does, however, not alter the
mode of control change for value improvementsV ∈[0,V∗
1 ] since the firstB already ensures
that a control change takes place through takeover activism. At the same time, control
investors enter now at a slower rate asBs. Ceteris paribus, bidder competition increases
Ls’ profits and decreasesBs’ profits. Hence, to keep control investors indifferent between
the two roles,Ls need to enter at a faster rate to increaseBs’ profits. This reinforces the
slower increase in takeover activism.
Once every firm is matched with aL (n∗
L = 1), no control investors enters the market as
a B anymore. Consequently, the relative frequency of takeover activism reaches a “steady
state” and the line depicting the ratio of takeover activism to direct takeover in Figures 6a
and 6b becomes horizontal.
As the market for corporate control evolves and more control investors enter, it becomes
more efficient. LetE denote market efficiency measuring the percentage of potential value
improvements realized in equilibrium. Figure 7 shows thatE is a weakly increasing function
of the measure of control investorsn in both cases. While all potential value improvements
are realized in Case (a), the market does not attain full efficiency in Case (b). In Case (b)
being aL in a firm matched with aB is more profitable than vice versa. As a result not
all firms are in equilibrium matched with aB (n∗
B < 1) for all values ofn. This is due to
our simplifying assumption that multipleLs in one firm do not dilute each other’s profits.
As we discuss in Section 3.3, allowing for such dilution would lead to more control investors
enter asB, thereby improving efficiency.
With a firm population of mass one, the efficiency measureE can also be interpreted as
the probability of each individual firm to be taken over and restructured. This in turn can
be decomposed into first the probability of being matched with aL which is a prerequisite
28
(a) E[Π B(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]> E[Π L(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]
 (b) E[Π B(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]< E[Π L(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]
Figure 7: Equilibrium efficiencyE of the market for corporate control as a function of the
market sizen.
for a control change and second the probability of being restructured conditional on being
matched with aL.
E =min{n∗
L, 1}  
P[matchedL]
min{n∗
B + (1−n∗
B)
∫ 1
V∗
0
VdF (V ) 1
E[V ], 1}
  
≈P[control change|matched]
(7)
The probability that a firm is matched with aL is simply the equilibrium measure of large
shareholdersn∗
L or 1 oncen∗
L≥1. Conditional on being matched with anL, a firm matched
with a B is always restructured while – forn∗
B < 1 – a firm not matched with aB is
restructured only ifV≥V∗
0 .
The two components of the efficiency gainE capture two distinct effects. First, when
control investors enter only asLs in the early stage, the sole source of gains is that more
control investors are able to identify more restructuring opportunities, that is, more firms.
This is a common “scale” effect of more market entry. Second, an additional source of gains
materializing in the transformation stage is the increase in the probability that a potential
firm, once identified, is actually restructured. This is not a scale effect but reflects the
evolution of the market toward amore effective mode of control change. It corresponds to
the efficiency gains of takeover activism identified in the firm-level analysis.
Formally, we can decompose the increase in efficiency forn∗
L,n∗
B∈(0, 1) as
29
∂E
∂n= ∂n∗
L
∂n
(
n∗
B + (1−n∗
B)
∫ 1
V∗
0
VdF (V ) 1
E[V ]
)
  
>0, scale effect
+∂n∗
B
∂nn∗
L
∫ V∗
0
0
VdF (V ) 1
E[V ]  
>0, TA effect
> 0. (8)
The additional “takeover-activism effect” arises from entry of outside bidders who allow to
restructure also companies with value improvements belowV∗
0 . This effect becomes more
dominant if many firms are already matched with a large shareholder as the likelihood that
an outside bidder is matched to a firm, where she is needed to restructure the firm, increases.
3.3 Discussion of Market Modeling Assumptions
Prices of initial stakes.In a setting with rational investors and noise traders (e.g., Kyle
(1985), Kyle & Vila (1991)), share prices should generally reflect that control investors buy
shares in some firms and bring about value improvements. Hence, as more control investors
enter the market, the price at which they can buy initial stakes should be increasing because
each firm is more likely to experience a value improvement. This leads to the standard effect
that increased entry reduces investor profits.
We intentionally abstract from this effect because it is orthogonal to our main result that
takeover activism increasingly replaces direct takeovers as the prevalent mode of control
change when more control investors enter the market. Moreover, it allows us to highlight a
countervailingeffect: Inthetransformationstage, moreentryleadsto higher controlinvestor
profits because of the complementarity between outside bidders and large shareholders.16
Multiple large shareholders. In our model multiple outside bidders compete in an
auction while there is no competition among multiple large shareholders. Arguably, multiple
Ls render the purchase of a stake more difficult and expensive. Such dilution of profits could
be captured for instance by assuming thatΠL(V ) drops by some fraction or amount with
each integer n∗
B reaches. In such a setting, multiple Ls would not only erode eachL’s
profits but also lead to moreBs entering since in equilibrium control investors must be
16In a model that allows for both of these countervailing effects, prices and profits would depend on the
mass of control investors through multiple channels, preventing clear-cut closed-form solutions.
30
indifferent between assuming either role. Overall, the expected profits to be made in the
market for corporate control would be first increasing and then decreasing in the measure
of control investors. Ultimately, the market for corporate control would become saturated,
that is, expected profits would be so low that furthers investor would not want to enter.
These effects are intuitive, but formalizing them would be rather cumbersome. In particular,
capturing multipleLs as a reduction in the stake size would introduce non-linearities and
prevent an analytical solution.
Roles in multiple firms.To keep the analysis tractable we restrict control investors to
a single role matched to a single firm. Alternatively, control investors could adopt different
roles in different firms, in particular an investor could be a large shareholder in one firm
and a potential outside bidder in (an)other firm(s). Clearly, such multiple roles would
lead to higher expected profits, making entering the control market more attractive. The
resulting larger influx of investors and capital would accelerate the evolution of the market
for corporate control. That is, takeover activism would spring into existence “earlier”, and
the transition from direct takeovers to takeover activism as the prevalent mode of control
change would occur faster. Still, as long as there are search frictions in finding a bidder for
a particular firm, such a model would continue to generate a growth of takeover activism
relative to takeovers as more control investors enter the market.
In practice, there seems to be a specialization to particular roles, at least in a sufficiently
developed market: Activist hedge funds perform the role ofLs and private equity funds
those ofBs focused on certain industries. Brown et al. (2023) present evidence that private
equity funds specialize in specific industries and geographies, and that these funds can use
their specialized expertise to generate higher returns. However, such specialization renders
executing multiple roles unfeasible for many control investors, albeit not for all as the
example of Carl Icahn shows.
Growth of control market.We capture the evolution of the market for corporate con-
trol by comparing the market composition (n∗
L,n∗
B) for exogenous increases in the measure
of control investorsn. A richer framework would allow investments in the control market
and in an alternative market such that capital or number of investors in the control market
31
are a function of (previous) profits. Still, our reduced form approach comprises this logic.
Due to the complementarity betweenL and B profits increase as more control investors
enter, thereby providing a rationale for the exogenous growth of the market.
An alternative way to model the growth of the control market would include entry
cost where investors only enter once this cost drops below some threshold. Due to the
complementarity, all investors would immediately enter once the threshold makes entry
worthwhile for the first (few) investors. In practice, market entry and capital formation
take time. Our reduced form model delivers the relevant dynamics and is, therefore, better
equipped to speak to the evolution over time.
3.4 Disciplinary Ownership Changes: Empirical Patterns
Ourtheorypositsthatagrowinginflux(offundsatthedisposal)ofcontrol-orientedinvestors
causes a shift from direct takeovers toward takeover activism. This transition can be broken
down into four trends that would unfold in parallel: First, the control-oriented investment
sector grows; second, all the while the incidence of hostile tender offers declines; third, the
decline in hostile tender offers is not tantamount to a drop in disciplinary ownership changes;
fourth, takeover activism replaces tender offers as the main mode of effectuating disciplinary
control changes in public firms.
These predictions match documented developments in the market for corporate control.
The hedge fund and private equity sectors have experienced spectacular growth over the last
30years. Asalreadystatedintheintroduction, theassetsundermanagementbyhedgefunds
globally grew by a factor of 50 between 1997 and 2022, and this has also led to an increase
in the number of hedge funds that engage in activism, as shown for 1994-2018 in Figure 2
of Brav et al. (2022). In parallel, the global buyout deal value of private equity funds went
from $30 billion in 1995 to $1,121 billion in 2022. For U.S. private equity funds, Kaplan &
Stromberg (2009) report that nominal dollars of committed capital rose to over $200 billion
in 2007 from about $200 million in 1980. For the private equity sector globally, Braun et al.
(2023) estimate that assets under management multiplied nearly eight-fold from about $300
billion in 2000 to almost $2.4 trillion by 2020.
32
Figure 8: Decline of hostile takeover activity. Source: Institute for Mergers, Acquisitions and
Alliances https://imaa-institute.org/mergers-and-acquisitions-statistics/
Clearly, these numbers considerably overstate the growth of the subset of funds that map
intothe“control-orientedinvestors”withinourmodelbecausenotallactivistcampaignsseek
a sale of the target firm; nor do all private equity buyouts involve a public target. However,
whatthenumbersshowisageneralincreaseincapitalflowtoinvestorswhopursue corporate
governance changes orcontrolling ownershipstakes (in public or private firms). This inflow
of control-oriented capital promoted active ownership strategies at large, and we would argue
also takeover activism and public-to-private buyouts.
In terms of the market for corporate control, there has been a steady downward trend in
hostile tender offers over the same time span. This has been pointed out by several scholars
(e.g., Holmstrom & Kaplan 2001, Fos 2017). Figure 8 shows the number of hostile tender
offers in the U.S. as reported by the Institute of Mergers, Acquisitions, and Alliances. There
was a dramatic drop at the end of the 1980s (after the initial build-up earlier in that decade)
and a sizable resurgence in the mid-1990s, followed thereafter by a fairly continuous decline.
However, there was no parallel decline of disciplinary ownership changes in public firms.
As Kaplan & Stromberg (2009) report, the private equity sector grew steadily during 1994
to 2004 (except for a temporary dip in 2000-2001) and experienced a boom from 2005 to
33
mid-2007. Across this period (of declining hostile tender offers), public company buyouts
increased and in fact quite sharply so during the latter boom episode.17 Extending the data
to 2016, Figure 2 in Renneboog & Vansteenkiste (2017) shows cycles but no negative trend in
public company buyouts, which is notable given that the number of public firms shrunk over
this period.18 Considering that private equity firms implement major financial, governance,
andoperationalchangethroughbuyouts(Kaplan&Stromberg2009), disciplinaryownership
changes have not decreased, unlike hostile tender offers.
Meanwhile, the expansion of the activist hedge fund sector meant that more public firms
became targets of activist campaigns, as depicted in Figure 2 in Brav et al. (2021). This too
occurred against the backdrop of the decrease in the number of public firms; the referenced
figure indeed shows that the percentage of public firms targeted by activism rose. Table 1 in
Brav et al. (2021) lists “Sale of target company” and “Governance” as the initially reported
objective for, respectively, about 18.5% and 35.5% of campaigns.19 Several studies find that
takeover activism is among the most profitable campaign categories and a primary source of
the aggregate returns to hedge fund activism (Greenwood & Schor 2009, Becht et al. 2017,
Boyson et al. 2017).
The notion that the public company buyouts by private equity funds are aided by activist
hedge funds who put the firms in play is widespread among practitioners.20 The interactions
and overlap of private equity and activism now characterize the market for corporate control
to such a degree that the relationship is commonly referred to as asymbiosis or aconvergence
(e.g., Billings & Gump 2005, Sorkin 2007, Barker 2007, Klein et al. 2020, Goldfarb 2020) and
are viewed to be the result of the growing capital flow into both control-oriented investment
strategies.21 By some, “activism has been dubbed ‘the new M&A’ ” (Campbell 2014).
17This is notwithstanding the fact that much of overall private equity activity involves private targets.
18See, e.g., Kahle & Stulz (2017).
19Quite often governance-motivated campaigns ultimately lead to a sale of the target firm even when this
outcome is not explicitly declared as the initial campaign objective (Greenwood & Schor 2009).
20Thomas H. Lee, a private equity pioneer, is quoted in a New York Times article as acknowledging, “I’d
like to thank my friends Carl Icahn, Nelson Peltz, Jana Partners, Third Point...for teeing up deals because
they’re coming in there and shaking up the management and many times these companies are being driven
into some form of auction” (Sorkin 2007).
21While such discussions typically focused on the overlap and complementarity of private equity and hedge
fund activism, recently there have also been signs of conflict because the increased capital flow has intensified
competition among the control-oriented investors in the now more “saturated” market for corporate control
(e.g., Moeser 2019, Crawford & Gruenberg 2020). The emergence of such conflicts is interesting but they are
34
For a few of the above trends, in particular the decline of hostile tender offers, alternative
explanationshavebeenproposed. Oneoftenstatednarrativeisthatthewidespreadadoption
of takeover defenses, notably poison pills, caused the shift away from hostile takeovers (e.g.,
Bertrand & Mullainathan 2003, Cremers & Ferrell 2014, Fos 2017). This argument has two
caveats. The first is conceptual. Takeover defenses render control changes more difficult as
they must be removed—or incumbent management’s resistance must be overcome—before a
disciplinary ownership change. However, they do not require a shift from “tender offers” to
“merger invites” because activists are not bound to one or the other mode of control change
in conjunction with overcoming such resistance. Indeed, they can remove defenses and issue
a tender offer afterwards.22
The second caveat is empirical. Suppose it were correct that takeover defenses undermine
hostiletakeoverbidsandtherebynecessitatetakeoveractivism. By1990, mostpublicfirms—
arguably those that needed it the most—had already two or more takeover defenses in place;
for many well-known provisions (including classified boards, poison pills, and supermajority
rules), adoption peaked and plateaued around 2000. Since then it has continuously declined,
arguably in part due to activism (Karpoff & Wittry 2022). This does not align very well with
the changes in tender offers, which dipped in the early 1990s, surged back in the latter half of
the 1990s, and then continuously declined throughout the 2000s and 2010s.23
Wewouldarguethat, atthesametimethatthegrowthofthecontrol-orientedinvestment
sector reversed the proliferation of takeover defenses, it also led to a permanent structural
shift in the market for corporate control that favors takeover activism over direct takeover
bids. This matches the reduced adoption of takeover defenses and yet continued decline of
hostile tender offers. Our explanation is also consistent with the observation that takeover
not a focus of our paper.
22As the data in Boyson et al. (2017) and Brav et al. (2021) show, this does happen, albeit not very often.
In Brav et al. (2021)’s sample, activists intend to make a takeover bid in 3.2% of all activist campaigns. In
Boyson et al. (2017)’s sample, about 15% of takeover bids are made by an activist. One anecdotal example is
Carl Icahn’s campaign at Southwest Gas Holdings mentioned in footnote 6. These instances reflect Karpoff
& Wittry (2022)’s verdict that “takeover defenses are not acquisition showstoppers that impose a corner
solution of zero takeovers” (p.10).
23On a different note, in our theory, the evolution of the market makes being a control-oriented blockholder
more profitable relative to a world with only hostile bids. Therefore, to deter control changes, firms would
need to implement “takeover defenses” that more effectively reduce the gains from equity stakes that lead
to takeover activism. The increased use of poison pills with low trigger thresholds, so-called anti-activism
pills, as documented by Eldar et al. (2023), may precisely play this role in indirectly deterring takeovers.
35
processes have become more sell-side driven since the 1990s, perhaps because of takeover
defenses, but nonetheless have remained competitive (Liu & Mulherin 2019, Brown et al.
2022).24 While takeover defenses ceteris paribus dampen takeover activity, in our theory,
both the returns to control-oriented investment and the efficiency of the market continue to
improveovertime. Thereasonisthatstrategiccomplementaritiesbetweenactivistsandbuy-
out funds promote entry and shift the market toward sell-side driven takeover activism as the
more effective mode of control change.
Another proposed explanation for the decrease in hostile tender offers is that shareholder
activism offers a “low-cost-low stakes” alternative that has made costlier interventions, such
as takeovers, superfluous in many cases (Gilson & Gordon 2013). The scope of non-takeover
activism is in fact evidenced by activist campaigns that do not seek a sale of the target firm.
However, the prevalence of takeover activism suggests that there has not been a substitution
away from disciplinary takeovers. Because companies are also acquired in takeover activism,
the cumulative intervention costs and especially stakes are ultimately comparable to those
in hostile tender offers. Rather than a low-cost-low-stakes substitute, activism in these cases
is a mechanism that facilitates the market for corporate control (Denes et al. 2017).
4 On the Efficiency Gains from Takeover Activism
In our discussion of why the equilibrium outcome in Corollary 1 is fully efficient, we claim
that bypassing the free-rider problem in the merger invitation is immaterial for this result.
In this section, we corroborate this claim by analyzing a model variation in which the outside
bidder also faces the free-rider problem. This additional analysis shows that the efficiency
gains do not stem from avoiding the free-rider problem; rather, the choice between brokering
and undertaking a takeover allows for a (partial)separationof the free-rider problem and the
asymmetric information problem.
24The fact that many acquisitions of public firms are seller-initiated is explored in Masulis & Simsir (2018)
and Eckbo et al. (2020). Gorbenko & Malenko (forthcoming) provide a theory of deal initiation. Concerning
disciplinarybuyouts(ratherthansynergisticmergers), ourtheoryalsoanalyzesthechoicebetweenabuy-side
driven “tender offer” and a sell-side driven “merger invite.”
36
4.1 Block Trade and Bidder Tender Offer
We now consider a variation of the single-firm model in which ”takeover activism” is carried
out through a block trade between the large shareholder and the outside bidder who subse-
quently makes a tender offer for the dispersedly held shares. That is,L can make a tender
offerτL herself or sell her stakeαtoB. Following a block trade,B can make a tender offer
τB to dispersed shareholders, which exposes her to the free-rider problem. To keep a level
playing field, we assume the same bargaining protocol for the block trade as we did for the
merger invitation: With probabilityρ,L makes a take-it-or-leave-it offerpL for theαstake,
and with probability1−ρ, B makes a take-it-or-leave-it offerpB.
The difference inL’s payoff from making a tender offer herself and trading theαstake
to B is
(1−α)(V−τL) +αV  
Direct Takeover
−α[ρpB + (1−ρ)pL]  
Takeover Activism
. (9)
As one can easily see, ifP = τL, PB = pB and PL = pL, L’s decision between a direct
takeover and takeover activism is the same as in the baseline model (see Equation (4)).
After the block acquisition, the dispersed shareholders accept the tender offer fromB
only if her offerτB at least matches the conditonal expected share valueE[V|invite]. Since
B and the dispersed shareholders share the common posteriorE[V|invite], her bidτB does
not affect their expectation ofV. Consequently, they accept the offerτB = E[V|invite].
Proposition 4. The model with block trades and subsequent tender offers replicates the
equilibrium outcome of Proposition 1: For allV ∈[V∗
1, 1], the large shareholder makes a
bid herself. For allV ∈[0,V∗
1 ), she sells her block to the bidder, who subsequently makes a
successful bid.
As in Proposition 1, highL types prefer to acquire the firm themselves because it allows
them to reap the full value improvement of their initial stake. By contrast, lowL types
prefer takeover activism, since selling the αstake at a pooled price is more attractive.
Furthermore, Proposition 4 shows that the cut-offV∗
1 remains unchanged and that all firms
37
are taken over and restructured. Intuitively,L sells her entire stake in the block trade and in
the merger negotiations, and both proceed under the same bargaining protocol. Therefore,
the expected price and the cutoff are the same as in merger negotiations, since the firm is
ultimately acquired byB. All firm types are taken over in this variant of takeover activism
because asymmetric information and the free-rider problem are separated. In the block
trade, there is an asymmetric information problem, but no free-riding. Since there are
known gains from trade, asymmetric information itself does not prevent efficient trade. In
the subsequent tender offerB has the same posterior as the dispersed shareholders. Thus,
B is only exposed to free-riding which by itself does not preclude efficient trade. As a result,
the control allocation is fully efficient.
The only difference from the baseline model is a redistribution of profits fromB to
dispersed shareholders. Under a negotiated block trade with subsequent tender offer,B’s
expected profit stems solely from the block trade. The bid price for the(1−α) shares must
be equal to their expected value(1−α)E[V|V ≤V∗], because the dispersed shareholders
do not tender at any lower price. By contrast,B makes an expected profit on all shares in
a merger, since also the dispersed shareholders have to sell at the negotiated price.
4.2 Informed Bidder after Block Trade
The efficiency gains associated with takeover activism arise because block trade and sub-
sequent tender offer permit a full separation of asymmetric information and the free-rider
problem. One may wonder whether takeover activism still generates efficiency gains—in the
arguably plausible scenario—when the bidder learns the true value improvementV after
the block trade but prior to making the bid. In this case,B—likeL—knows more than the
dispersed shareholders. Thus, the tender offer is once again plagued by both the asymmet-
ric information and the free-rider problem. Nevertheless, takeover activism still improves
efficiency, albeit to a lesser extent.
Proposition 5.When the bidder learnsV after the block trade, the large shareholder makes
a bid forV ∈[V
∗
1, 1] and otherwise sells her block. Subsequently, the bidder makes a bid for
all V ∈[V∗
1,V
∗
1) but does not bid forV ∈[0,V∗
1) with V∗
1 <V ∗
0 .
38
The equilibrium with an informed bidder is characterized by two cutoffs (see Figure
9). For all substantial value improvements(V ≥V
∗
1), the large shareholder makes a direct
acquisition, offering the expected post-takeover share valueτ∗
L = E[V|V ≥V
∗
1]. For all
moderate value improvements(V <V
∗
1), L negotiates a block trade with the bidder.
0 1V
∗
1V∗
1 V∗
0
tender offerLno control change tender offerB
Figure 9: Equilibrium cutoffs with informed bidder.
Once the bidder learns the value improvementV, she is in a situation similar to the large
shareholder in the Shleifer & Vishny (1986) setting, though with one crucial difference. The
very fact thatL abstained from making a tender offer credibly reveals that the possible value
improvements are truncated to the subset[0,V
∗
1] when B makes her bid. Consequently,B
can succeed with a lower offer price thanL. In parallel to the tender offers made byL,
all successfulB types pay the same priceτ∗
B = E[V|V ∈[V∗
1,V
∗
1]], and those types with a
smaller (larger) value improvement acquire the firm at a premium (discount). Again, the
mispricing detersB types with sufficiently small value improvementsV < V∗
1. Their gain
on theαstake does not compensate for the loss at which they would buy the(1−α) shares
in the tender offer.
Since the block trade only occurs ifV ∈[0,V
∗
1], the bid priceτB that the bidder has
to pay and the cutoff typeV∗
1 above which a bid is profitable must be smaller than in the
setting where only the large shareholder can acquire the firm (Section 2.2). Therefore, more
firms are taken over and restructured than without takeover activism.
Finally, anticipating the outcome in the tender offer stage the bidder values the block at
αE[V 1V≥V∗
1|V ≤V
∗
1] = αP[V ≥V∗
1|V ≤V
∗
1]×E[V|V∗
1≤V ≤V
∗
1]. Thus, the large
shareholder cannot ask more thanp∗
L = E[V 1V≥V∗
1|V ≤V
∗
1] for her stake in the block
trade negotiations. SinceL’s payoff is zero should the negotiations fail,B offersp∗
B = 0.
39
4.3 Bidder Chain
We now allow for the possibility of multiple block trades prior to the tender offer. To this
end we introduce many bidders placed in a chain. More specifically, there arei∈{1,...,n}
outside bidders where the large shareholder is, for ease of notation, bidder1. Bidder 1
owns αshares and learns the realization ofV. Subsequently, he makes a tender offerτ1
or negotiates a block trade with bidder2. The negotiation protocol remains unchanged:
with probabilityρ, bidder1 makes the offerpask
1 and with1−ρbidder 2 can make an offer
pbid
2 . If bidder 2 acquires the block, she in turn learns the realization ofV and decides to
either make a bid or negotiate a block trade with bidder3. Generally speaking, if some
bidder i<n does not make a tender offer, she can sell the block to bidderi + 1. Biddern
can make a tender offer but not sell on the block. The game ends as soon as some bidder
i∈{1,...,n}makes a tender offer and the dispersed shareholders decide whether to tender
or when biddern does not make a bid. Figure 10 displays the sequences of moves.
1 2 3 4 ... n
shareholders shareholders shareholders shareholders shareholders
(pask
1 ,p bid
2 )
τ1
(pask
2 ,p bid
3 )
τ2
(pask
3 ,p bid
4 )
τ3
(pask
4 ,p bid
5 )
τ4
(pask
n−1,p bid
n )
... τn
Figure 10: Bidder chain.
Proposition 6. There is an equilibrium characterized byn cutoffs 1 > V1 > V2 >···>
Vn > 0. A bidderi conducts a tender offer ifV ∈[Vi,Vi−1) and otherwise negotiates a block
with bidderi + 1.
Each bidderi<n makes a tender offerτi = E[V|V ∈[Vi,Vi−1)] if the value improvement
V is in the interval[Vi,Vi−1) and enters block trade negotiations whenever the improvement
is smaller (V <Vi). In the latter case, bidderi + 1offers with probability(1−ρ) to buy the
block at the bid pricepbid
i+1 = 0 since bidderi’s outside option is zero. With probabilityρ,
bidderi offers to sell the block at the ask pricepask
i =∑n−1
j=i ρj−i E[V 1V∈[Vj+1,Vj)|V ≤Vj].
40
The pricepask
i is the expected value of the block to bidderi+1 which comprises the expected
profits from a takeover and a block trade. The block trade profits, in turn, are given by
bidder i + 2’s expected profits from a takeover and a block trade. Iterating until biddern
gives the formula above.
Ifbidder ibuystheblockattheaskprice pask
i−1 sherealizesaprofitonlyifshesubsequently
makes a bid. Otherwise, she makes a loss sincepask
i−1 > pask
i > pbid
i+1. Trivially, if she pays
her bid pricepbid
i she never makes a loss. Finally, if biddern ends up buying the block she
makes a bidτn = E[V|V ∈[Vn,Vn−1)] if V ∈[Vn,Vn−1). For smaller value improvements
than Vn, the large shareholder does not acquire and restructure the firm. In other words,
the control allocation is inefficient.
Proposition 7.The set of firms that are not being taken over and restructured shrinks with
the length of the bidder chain. Asn−→∞, the control allocation becomes efficient.
Proposition 7 shows that the control allocation becomes more efficient when the bidder
chain increases in length. In the limit, the control allocation is fully efficient, notwithstand-
ing the conjunction of free-rider and asymmetric information problem at every tender offer
stage. Intuitively, for lower realizations ofV more bidders must forgo the option to acquire
the firm tocollectively signal that the value improvement is indeed small. The dispersed
shareholders are then willing to tender at a price such that the bid becomes profitable for
small value improvements. If sufficiently many bidders signal by foregoing to acquire the
firm themselves, a takeover becomes profitable for some bidder for any value improvement,
however small.
Comparing this to our baseline model in Sections 2 and 3, this means that the efficiency
gainsfromtakeoveractivismthere(i.e., frommergerinvitations)areequivalenttothosefrom
“intermediation” across the above chain of bidders, as the number of bidders goes to infinity.
Relation to “Intermediation Chains.”Glode & Opp (2016) study a screening problem
where an uninformed seller makes a take-it-or-leave-it offer to a buyer who has private
information about her willingness to pay. Even for known gains from trade, bilateral trade
is not efficient. Intermediation chains increase efficiency if intermediaries are increasingly
41
better informed in a way that reduces the dispersion of the seller’s belief about the “next
buyer’s” valuation. Less dispersed beliefs promote efficiency because a price increase is
associated with a larger increment in the probability of a trade failure. This induces the
seller to demand lower prices, resulting in more trade.
We consider a signalling model with known gains of trade in which the combination of
asymmetric information and free-riding is the source of inefficiency. Similar to Glode & Opp
(2016), allowing for a chain of transactions improves efficiency. In our setting, each con-
secutive block trade further truncates the shareholders’ posterior belief. Thisendogenous
concentration of shareholder beliefs makes takeovers with smaller value improvements fea-
sible. In contrast to Glode & Opp (2016), each intermediary (bidder) can become perfectly
informed after the block trade while still increasing efficiency in our model.
More broadly, our paper contributes to the literature on trade under asymmetric in-
formation in financial markets. Information revelation through block trades allows for a
subsequent trade with the dispersed shareholders. At a conceptual level, this is a variant of
information-based trade à la Bond & Eraslan (2010).
5 Concluding Remarks
We provide a model of the market for corporate control that allows large shareholders to
make a tender offer or to put the firm in play, that is, to broker a sale to an outside bidder.
We show in a single-firm setting that the option to be on the sell side gives rise to an efficient
allocation of control by overcoming two fundamental governance problems: free-riding and
asymmetric information. We then embed our single-firm model into a market model to study
the evolution of the market of corporate control. After an early phase with buy-side driven
tender offers, the market shifts gradually towards sell-side driven mergers.
Our theory offers an explanation for secular changes in the market for corporate control:
the decline of hostile takeover bids and the concurrent rise of takeover activism. This trend is
typically attributed to legal changes. But as we show, it emerges endogenously as the capital
availabletoinvestorswhoseektoimplementcontrolchangesinunderperformingfirmsgrows.
42
The reason is that the combination of asymmetric information and the free-rider problem is
most effectively overcome when active investors begin to populate both sides of the market—
as activist investors who acquire firms themselves or put them in play and as outside bidders
whostandreadytoacquirefirmsthathavebeenputinplay. Thestrategiccomplementarities
between these control-oriented investment strategies are being increasingly exploited as the
market matures, and drive the unique “industrial organization” of the market for corporate
control.
This perspective can potentially explain other phenomena outside of our analysis, which
reflect a continuing convergence of hedge fund activism and private equity. First, there are
instances in which buyout firms sponsor activist campaigns in specific targets, as in the
case of Valeant and Pershing Square (e.g., Gandel 2015), and conversely, instances in which
activists sponsor a special purpose acquisition company (SPAC) and team up with a buyout
firm to acquire a target, as in the case of Third Point and Silver Lake Partners (e.g., Beltran
2020). Second, some control-oriented investment firms, like Elliott Management, now com-
bine both strategies by running activist hedge fundsand buyout funds (e.g., Louch 2019).
Suchcross-overactivitiesraisetheriskofcollusionandinsidertrading, whichwarrantfurther
scrutiny that is beyond the scope of this paper. That being said, the concerns about how the
market of corporate control is “organized” should, in light of our theory, be paired with an
understanding of the information and coordination problems that active investors need to
overcome to efficiently reallocate control.
43
A Appendix: Main Proofs
A.1 Proof of Lemma 1
Proof. See proof of Theorem1 in Shleifer & Vishny (1986) and footnote14.
A.2 Proof of Proposition 1
Proof. Step 1: In any equilibrium, there is a cutoffˆV ∈(0, 1) such that allV < ˆV extend
a merger invitation and allV ≥ˆV make a tender offer.
If all types were to pool on tender offerPT, the free-rider condition would implyPT≥
E[V ] such thatV = 0 (and, by continuity, slightly higher types) make a strict loss. Con-
versely, if all types extend a merger invitation,α[ρPL + (1−ρ)PB]≤αPB≤αE[V ]. Hence,
V = 1(and, bycontinuity, slightlylowertypes)haveaprofitabledeviationtoatenderofferof
P = 1. All shareholders would tender atPT = 1 such that this deviation yieldsα1>αE[V ].
In equilibrium, all successful tender offers need to have the same price. If offersPT and
P′
T with P′
T > PT were successful, it would be strictly profitable to deviate toPT. The
bargaining protocol for the merger invitations directly impliesPB = 0. Furthermore, all
offers byL accepted in equilibrium must have the same pricePL. If offersPL and P′
L with
P′
L <P L were accepted, it would be strictly profitable to deviate toPL.
For fixed (unique) prices(PT,PB,PL) accepted in equilibrium,L’s payoff difference is
given by∆(V,PT,PB,PL) := (1−α)(V−PT )+αV−α[ρPL+(1−ρ)PB] which is strictly and
continuously increasing inV. Hence, there is uniqueˆV such that allV ≥ˆV prefer a tender
offer and allV < ˆV prefer a merger invitation. In addition, typeV = 1 makes a tender offer
because P = 1 is accepted and∆(V = 1,PT = 1,PB,PL) = α1−α[ρPL + (1−ρ)PB)]≥
α1−αE[V ]> 0. TypeV = 0 extends a merger invitation because∆(V = 0,PT,PB,PL)< 0
and α[ρPL + (1−ρ)PB]> 0 providedPL > 0. PL = 0 can only hold if all typesV ∈(0, ˆV ]
do nothing which is inconsistent with credible off-equilibrium beliefs by Grossman & Perry
(1986). Any typeV ∈(0, ˆV ] would like to deviate to anyPL > 0 if it was accepted byB.
44
Since such a deviation is profitable for allV ∈(0, ˆV ], and possibly someV ∈( ˆV, 1], the
bidder accepts anyPL < E[V|V ≤ˆV ] under credible off-equilibrium beliefs by Grossman &
Perry (1986). Hence, ˆV∈(0, 1).
Step 2: In any equilibrium,PT = E[V|V ≥ˆV ], PL = E[V|V ≤ˆV ] and PB = 0.
Suppose PT > E[V|V ≥ˆV ] in an equilibrium with cutoff ˆV ∈(0, 1). Deviating to
P′
T = E[V|V ≥ˆV ]is profitable for allV ≥ˆV if shareholders tender atP′
T. By continuity and
monotonicity, it is also profitable for some non-empty interval[V′, ˆV ) of types withV′> 0.
Hence, credible off-equilibrium beliefs implyE[V|P′
T ] = E[V|V ≥V′]< P′
T = E[V|V ≥ˆV ]
and the tender offerP′
T succeeds. Hence,PT = E[V|V ≥ˆV ] in equilibrium.
Similarly, supposePL < E[V|V ≤ˆV ] in an equilibrium with cutoffˆV∈(0, 1). Deviating
to P′
L = E[V|V ≤ˆV ] is profitable for allV ≤ˆV. By continuity and monotonicity, it is also
profitable for some interval( ˆV,V ′] of types withV′< 1. Hence, credible off-equilibrium
beliefs imply E[V|P′] = E[V|V ≤V′] > P′
L = E[V|V ≤ˆV ] and B accepts P′
L. Hence,
PL = E[V|V ≤ˆV ] in equilibrium. Obviously,L always acceptsPB = 0.
Step 3: There is a unique equilibrium with cutoffV∗
1 ∈(0, 1).
For a given ˆV, ∆(V ; ˆV ) = (1 −α)(V−E[V|V ≥ˆV ]) +αV−αρE[V|V ≤ˆV ] strictly
increases in V. Since ∆(V = 0; ˆV = 0) = −(1−α)E[V ] < 0 and ∆(V = 1; ˆV = 1) =
α1−αρE[V ]> 0, there exists a cutoffˆV such that ∆( ˆV ; ˆV ) = (1−α)( ˆV−E[V|V ≥ˆV ]) +
αˆV−αρE[V|V ≤ˆV ] = 0. Thiscutoffisalsouniquesince ( ˆV−E[V|V ≥ˆV ]) = (−1)MRL( ˆV ),
whereMRL( ˆV ) = E[V|V≥ˆV ]−ˆV is the mean residual life function which is monotonically
decreasing iff is log-concave (Bagnoli & Bergstrom 2005). Sinceα( ˆV−E[V|V ≤ˆV ]) is
increasing due to log-concavity (Bagnoli & Bergstrom 2005), so isαˆV −αρE[V|V ≤ˆV ].
Thus, there exists a unique cutoffV∗
1 such that ∆(V∗
1,V∗
1 ) = 0 and equilibrium prices are
PT = E[V|V≥V∗
1 ], PB = 0, andPL = E[V|V ≤V∗
1 ].
45
Step 4: Given the conjectured cutoff equilibriumV∗
1 , neitherL nor B want to deviate
fromtheconjecturedequilibriumprices PT = E[V|V≥V∗
1 ],PB = 0andPL = E[V|V ≤V∗
1 ].
Suppose L deviates to a lower tender offerP′
T ∈(0, E[V|V ≥V∗
1 ]) and it succeeds.
Hence, all V ≥V∗
1 deviate to P′
T. By continuity, there is a V′< V∗
1 such that this
deviation is also strictly profitable for allV ∈(V′,V∗
1 ]. Credible off-equilibrium beliefs
imply that E[V|P′
T ] = E[V|V > V′] such that the free-rider condition then requires that
P′
T ≥E[V|V > V′].Because P′
T is profitable for typesV ∈(V′,V∗
1 ], it has to hold that
V′≥(1−α)E[V|V > V′] + αρE[V|V ≤V∗
1 ]. Since V′< V∗
1 it must also hold that
V′> (1−α)E[V|V >V′] +αρE[V|V ≤V′]. Because ∆(0, 0)< 0 an ∆(V′;V′)> 0, by con-
tinuity, there has to be aV′′<V ′<V ∗
1 such that ∆(V′′,V′′) = 0. This is a contradiction
because ∆(V,V ) = 0 can hold only at the unique cutoffV∗
1 . Hence, there are no profitable
deviations toP′
T <P ∗
T. Obviously,L never wants to deviate to any higher tender offer since
P∗
T succeeds.
Suppose L deviates toP′
L > E[V|V ≤V∗
1 ] and B accepts. By continuity, this deviation
is profitable for allV ∈[0,V′] where V′>V ∗
1 Hence, credible off-equilibrium beliefs imply
E[V|P′
L] = E[V|V ≤V′]. Further, B’s acceptance requiresP′
L≤E[V|V ≤V′]. Deviation
is most profitable ifρ= 1 which we assume henceforth. Thus, for a profitable deviation
there has to be aV′> V∗
1 such thatV′−(1−α)E[V|V > V∗
1 ]−αρE[V|V ≤V′] < 0.
Hence, ∆(V′;V′)< 0. Because ∆(1, 1)> 0 and ∆(V′;V′)< 0, by continuity, there has to
be aV′′>V ′>V ∗
1 such that ∆(V′′,V′′) = 0. Hence, there are no profitable deviations to
P′
L >P ∗
L. Obviously,Lnever wants to deviate to any lower merger offer sinceP∗
L is accepted.
A.3 Proof of Proposition 2
Proof. Atn = 0, E[ΠL(V )] = E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ]> 0 =nLE[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] = E[ΠB(V )]
such that the first entrant is aL. By continuity andE[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]> E[ΠL(V )|V∗=
46
V∗
0 ], there is an> 0 such thatn E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] = E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ]. Hence, for all
n<n , onlyL’s enter.
Forn≥n and as long asnL∈[n, 1) and nB < 1, control investors must be indifferent
between entering as aL or aB, i.e.,
E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ] +nB (E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ]) =nL E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]
(10)
Fromn =nL +nB, it follows that
n∗
B = n E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ]
E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ] + E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ],
and
n∗
L = n (E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ]) + E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ]
E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ] + E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] .
Case I: For E[ΠB(V )|V∗= V∗
1 ] < E[ΠL(V )|V∗= V∗
1 ], indifference condition (10)
implies thatnB < 1 and nB < nL∀n. At n∗
L = 1, the total mass of control investors is
1 + E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ]
E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ] = n := n < 2. For all n≥n, the control investor’s
indifference condition is given by
E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ] +nB (E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ]) = E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ].
(11)
As a result, all new entrants becomeLs and
n∗
B = E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ]
E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ],
and
n∗
L = n (E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ]) + E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ]−E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]
E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ] .
47
Case II: For E[ΠB(V )|V∗= V∗
1 ] > E[ΠL(V )|V∗= V∗
1 ], indifference condition (10)
implies thatnB must reach1 before nL = 1. SinceB makes zero profit in bidding competi-
tion, her expected payoff isnL(2−nB)E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] once nB≥1 and provided that
nL < 1. Since Ls payoff increases due to bidder competition fromE[ΠL(V )|V∗= V∗
1 ] to
E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
2 ], an entrant’s indifference condition is
(2−nB)E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] + (nB−1)
(
E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ]
)
=nL(2−nB)E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]. (12)
Rearranging and plugging innL =n−nB yields the following quadratic equation
[
2E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
2 ]−2nE[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]
]
  
=:a
+
[
E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
2 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] + (2 +n)E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]
]
  
=:b
nB
−E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]  
=:c
n2
B = 0 (13)
Note that sincenL =n−nB, a non-linearity arises and we arrive at
n∗
B =
2E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] +nE[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] + E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
2 ]
2E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]
−
E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]
2E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]
×
√
(n−2)2 E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]2−2(n−2)E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]
+ (E[ΠL
LB(V,ρ= 1)−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ])2 + 2nE[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
2 ]E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]2
2E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]
(14)
and
n∗
L = E[Π L(V )|V∗=V∗
2 ]−E[Π L(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]
2E[Π B(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]
−
E[Π B(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ](n−2) +
√
(n−2)2 +
(E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
2 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ])2
E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]2
+
4E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]+2nE[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
2 ]−2nE[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]
E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]
2E[Π B(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]
(15)
48
as the unique admissible solutions. Bothn∗
B andn∗
L strictly increase inn. As a result, there
is an′such thatn∗
L(n′) = 1 and n∗
B(n′)> 1. For alln′≥n, the equilibrium conditions are
(nB−1)E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
2 ] + (2−nB)E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] = (2−nB) E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]
(16)
and
n =nL +nB. (17)
Together, these yield
n∗
B = 2 E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]−2E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] + E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
2 ]
E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] + E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
2 ] , (18)
and
n∗
L =n−2 E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]−2E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] + E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
2 ]
E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] + E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
2 ] . (19)
where n∗
B is constant inn and n∗
L strictly increases inn.
A.4 Proof of Proposition 3
Proof. Obviously ifn∗
B = 0 and n∗
L > 0,
# takeover activism
# tender offers = 0. (20)
which corresponds to n ≤n for either case. If n∗
B ∈(0, 1] and n∗
L ∈(0, 1], a firm
is matched with a B and L with probability n∗
Ln∗
B. Conditional on such a match, the
probability of a merger invite is F(V∗
1 ). Conversely, conditional on a match of a firm
with both aL and aB, the probability that an outright tender offer occurs is1−F(V∗
1 ).
49
With probability n∗
L(1−n∗
B) a firm is only matched with aL such that a tender offer
occurs with probability 1−F(V∗
0 ). Taken together, the probability of a tender offer is
n∗
Ln∗
B(1−F(V∗
1 )) +n∗
L(1−n∗
B)(1−F(V∗
0 )). Hence,
# takeover activism
# tender offers = n∗
Ln∗
BF(V∗
1 )
n∗
Ln∗
B(1−F (V∗
1 )) +n∗
L(1−n∗
B)(1−F(V∗
0 )
= n∗
BF(V∗
1 )
n∗
B(1−F(V∗
1 )) + (1−n∗
B)(1−F(V∗
0 )) (21)
which increases inn∗
B and is constant inn∗
L. Ifn∗
B∈(0, 1] andn∗
L≥1, every firm is matched
with at least oneL such that
# takeover activism
# tender offers = n∗
BF(V∗
1 )
n∗
B(1−F(V∗
1 )) + (1−n∗
B)(1−F(V∗
0 )) (22)
which again increases inn∗
B and is constant inn∗
L.
If n∗
B≥1 and n∗
L∈(0, 1] , every firm is matched with at least oneB such that
# takeover activism
# tender offers = n∗
L(n∗
B−1)F(V∗
2 ) +n∗
L(2−n∗
B)F(V∗
1 )
n∗
L(n∗
B−1)(1−F (V∗
2 )) +n∗
L(2−n∗
B)(1−F(V∗
1 ))
= (n∗
B−1)F(V∗
2 ) + (2−n∗
B)F (V∗
1 )
(n∗
B−1)(1−F(V∗
2 )) + (2−n∗
B)(1−F(V∗
1 )) (23)
If n∗
B≥1 and n∗
L≥1 , every firm is matched with at least oneL and oneB such that
# takeover activism
# tender offers = (n∗
B−1)F(V∗
2 ) + (2−n∗
B)F (V∗
1 )
(n∗
B−1)(1−F(V∗
2 )) + (2−n∗
B)(1−F(V∗
1 )). (24)
All expressions are constant inn∗
L and increase inn∗
B because V∗
2 > V∗
1 > V∗
0 . Since
n weakly increases inn across all cases, takeover activism becomes more likely relative to
tender offers ifn increases.
50
A.5 Proof of Proposition 4
Proof. Suppose E[V|invite] > 0. If B has acquired the block ofL and holds the common
posterior E[V|invite] with the dispersed shareholders, she can acquire the remaining1−α
shares at E[V|invite] (byA1) yielding an expected profit of0 on each of these shares. Since
the price paid for theα-block is sunk at the stage of the tender offer,B obtains an expected
profitαE[V|invite]> 0 and, thus, it is a unique best response to take over the firm.
When L decides between a direct takeover and a block trade, her payoff difference is
given by
(1−α)(V−τL) +αV−α[ρpB + (1−ρ)pL]. (25)
As one can easily see, ifP = τL, PB = pB and PL = pL, L’s decision between a direct
takeover and takeover activism is the same as in the baseline model (see Equation (4)). By
steps 1−4 of the proof of Proposition 1, there exists a unique equilibrium characterized by
exactly the cutoffV∗
1 from Proposition 1 and, indeed,E[V|invite] = E[V|V ≤V∗
1 ]> 0.
A.6 Proof of Proposition 5
Proof. SupposeL issues a tender offer wheneverV ≥V
∗
1 and sells her block toB otherwise.
Given the conjectured equilibrium cutoffV
∗
1, the free-rider conditionB faces becomesτB≥
E[V|τB,V ≤V
∗
1].If B has acquired theα-block, B’s profits from a tender offer areV−
(1−α)τB.Hence, for a fixedτB, B’s payoff is monotonically increasing inV such that all
and only types above some cutoffV∗
1 conduct a tender offer. By credible off-equilibrium
beliefs and the same arguments as in the proof of Proposition 1,τB = E[V|V ∈[V∗
1,V
∗
1]].
Denote ∆ B(V∗
1) =V∗
1−(1−α)E[V|V ∈[V∗
1,V
∗
1]] = 0, then there is a uniqueV∗
1∈(0,V
∗
1)
since ∆ B(0) < 0, ∆ B(V
∗
1) > 0 and ∆ B(V∗
1) strictly increases by log concavity (because
truncations preserve log-concavity).
Now considerL’s initial decision. Since, by Proposition 1 (step 2), allL types conduct a
takeover (block-sale) need to pool on the sameτL (pL). Further, becauseL’s outside option
of the block trade is0, pB = 0. Thus, L’s payoff difference isV−(1−α)τL−αρpL and,
51
thus, is strictly increasing inV for fixed prices, verifying our conjecture thatL’s decision is
characterized by a cutoffV
∗
1. By credible off-equilibrium beliefs,pL = E[V 1V∈[[V∗,V
∗
1)|V ≤
V
∗
1] which isB’s expected profit from owning the block.L’s cutoffV
∗
1 is the solution to her
payoff difference from a tender offer and a block sale, i.e.,
(1−α)(V
∗
1−E[V|V ≥V
∗
1]) +αV
∗
1  
takeover
−α
(
ρE[V 1V≥V∗
1(V
∗
1)|V≤V
∗
1]
)
  
block trade
= 0. (26)
Note that V∗
1(V
∗
1) is a strictly increasing function inV
∗
1. As a result, by log-concavity,
α[V
∗
1−ρE[V 1V∈[V∗
1,V
∗
1)|V ≤V
∗
1]] strictly increases in V
∗
1 such that, by the arguments
in Proposition 1, there is a unique cutoffV
∗
1 ∈(0, 1) which concludes the proof. Last,
V
∗
1 >V ∗
0 >V ∗
1 follows by log-concavity and a simple comparison of the following (implicit)
equations
(1−α)(V
∗
1−E[V|V≥V
∗
1]) +αV
∗
1−αρE[V 1V≥V∗
1(V
∗
1)|V ≤V
∗
1] = 0
(1−α)(V∗
0 −E[V|V≥V∗
0 ]) +αV∗
0 = 0
(1−α)(V∗
1−E[V|V∈[V∗
1,V
∗
1)]) +αV∗
1 = 0.
A.7 Proof of Proposition 6
Proof. Consider a typical outside bidderi∈{1,...,n−1}. Her payoff difference between a
takeover and selling the block to the next bidder is
(1−α)(V−τi) +αV  
takeover
−α[ρpask
i ]  
block trade
. (27)
Hence, by monotonicity and because tender offer and block price will be type-independent by
previous arguments from Proposition 1,i’s decision can again be characterized by a cutoffVi.
For larger types,i opts for a tender offer, whereas she negotiates a block trade for lower ones.
Given the cutoff structure, by credible off-equilibrium beliefs,τi = E[V|V ∈[Vi,V i−1)] and
52
pask
i is the expected value of the block to the next bidderi + 1 whereas pbid
i+1 = 0 as i’s
outside option is0.
Consider the last biddernin the chain. Given that biddernis offered the block by bidder
n−1, she faces the same problem asLin Shleifer & Vishny (1986) withV distributed accord-
ing to the truncation ofF at Vn−1. Hence, n values the block atαE[V 1V∈[Vn,Vn−1)|V ≤
Vn−1]becausesherealizesatakeoverifandonlyif V islargerthansomecutoff Vn∈(0,Vn−1)
at tender offerτi = E[V|V ∈[Vn,Vn−1)] (by credible off-equilibrium beliefs). Biddern−1
then, in turn, values the block offered to her by biddern−2 at
αE[V 1V∈[Vn−1,Vn−2)|V≤Vn−2] +ραE[V 1V∈[Vn,Vn−1)|V ≤Vn−2]. (28)
Hence, in the conjectured equilibrium, some arbitrary bidder(i + 1)∈{1,...,n−1}, who
is offered the block by bidderi, values the block at
αE[V 1V∈[Vi+1,Vi)|V ≤Vi] +ραE[V 1V∈[Vi+2,Vi+1)|V ≤Vi] +ρ2αE[V 1V∈[Vi+3,Vi+2)|V ≤Vi]
+···+αρn−1−iE[V 1V∈[Vn−1,Vn−2)|V ≤Vi] =
n−1∑
j=i
ρj−i E[V 1V∈[Vj+1,Vj)|V ≤Vi] (29)
which is the maximal pricei can ask L for such that, by credible off-equilibrium beliefs,
pask
i =∑n−1
j=i ρj−i E[V 1V∈[Vj+1,Vj)|V ≤Vi]. Hence, plugging in block prices and tender
offers, the cutoffs are implicitly defined by



(1−α)(V1−E[V|V ≥V1]) +αV1−αρ∑n−1
j=1 ρj−1 E[V 1V∈[Vj+1,Vj)|V ≤V1] = 0
(1−α)(V2−E[V|V ∈[V2,V 1]]) +αV2−αρ∑n−1
j=2 ρj−2 E[V 1V∈[Vj+1,Vj)|V≤V2] = 0
...
(1−α)(Vi−E[V|V∈[Vi,Vi−1]]) +αVi−αρ∑n−1
j=i ρj−i E[V 1V∈[Vj+1,Vj)|V ≤Vi] = 0
...
(1−α)(Vn−1−E[V|V ∈[Vn−1,Vn−2]]) +αVn−1−αρE[V 1V∈[Vn,Vn−1)|V ≤Vn−1] = 0
(1−α)(Vn−E[V|V ∈[Vn,Vn−1]]) +αVn = 0.
53
By log concavity off(V ) and the arguments of Proposition 1, each equationi has a unique
solution Vi∈(0, 1) for a given vector of(V1,...,Vi−1,Vi+1,...,Vn)∈[0, 1]n−1. We now
argue that the system ofn equations has a unique solution vector(V1,V 2,...,Vn)∈(0, 1)n.
Consider the last of then equations ((1−α)(Vn−E[V|V∈[Vn,Vn−1]])+αVn = 0). By log-
concavity off(V ) and the arguments of Proposition 1, this equation has a unique, interior
solutionforany Vn−1. Then, bythesamearguements, foranyvalueof Vn−2∈(0, 1), thenext
to last equation (n−1) has a unique, interior solution. Iterating forward, the first equation
has a unique solution given the boundary condition ofV0 = 1. Last, we need to establish
that 1 > V1 > V2 >···> Vn > 0. Observe that for anyVn−1∈(0, 1), the last equation
implies thatVn = (1−α)E[V|V ∈[Vn,Vn−1]] < Vn−1. Again, iterating forward shows for
anyithatVi = (1−α)E[V|V ∈[Vi,Vi−1]])+αρ∑n−1
j=i ρj−i E[V 1V∈[Vj+1,Vj)|V ≤Vi]<V i−1,
which concludes the proof.
A.8 Proof of Proposition 7
Proof. We start by establishing that
(
Vn
)
n∈N strictly decreases inn. Suppose this was not
the case, then for somen∈N it has told thatVn
n ≤Vn+1
n+1 , where the superscriptℓin
Vℓ
n denotes the length of the bidder chain, whereas the subscript denotes, as before, the
particular element. Because the cutoff for the last bidder in the chain is determined by
(1−α)(Vn−E[V|V ∈[Vℓ
ℓ,V ℓ
ℓ−1]]) +αVℓ
ℓ= 0,
Vn
n ≤Vn+1
n+1 implies thatVn
n−1≤Vn+1
n . Furthermore, because the next to last bidder in the
chain is determined by
hℓ
ℓ−1≡(1−α)(Vℓ
ℓ−1−E[V|V ∈[Vℓ
ℓ−1,V ℓ
ℓ−2]])+αVℓ
ℓ−1−αρE[V 1V∈[Vℓ
ℓ,Vℓ
ℓ−1)|V ≤Vℓ
ℓ−1] = 0,
54
and becausehℓ
ℓ−1 strictly increases inVℓ
ℓ−1 (by log-concavity) and strictly decreases inVℓ
ℓ−2,
∂Vℓ
ℓ−1
∂Vℓ
ℓ−2
=−
∂hℓ
ℓ−1
∂Vℓ
ℓ−2
∂hℓ
ℓ−1
∂Vℓ
ℓ−1
> 0
so thatVn
n−1≤Vn+1
n can only hold ifVn
n−2≤Vn+1
n−1 . Iterating forward yields thatVn
1 ≤
Vn+1
2 can only hold if1 = Vn
0 ≤Vn+1
1 which yields a contradiction asVn+1
1 < 1 for all
ρ<1.
Because
(
Vn
)
n∈N decreases monotonically inn and is bounded below by0, it converges.
On the way to a contradiction, supposelimn→∞Vn =b> 0. Now consider the sequence of
(
Vn−1
)
n∈N which also decreases monotonically inn and is bounded below byb so that it
has to converge to someB1≥b. If limn→∞Vn−1 =b, then limn→∞Vn = (1−α)E[V|V ∈
[Vn,b ]] < bwhich yields a contradiction. Thus, it has to hold thatB1 > b. Now consider
two sequences
(
Vn−k
)
n∈N and
(
Vn−k−1
)
n∈N for some arbitraryk∈{2,...,n−2}. Both
sequences decrease monotonically inn and are bounded below byb so that they have to
converge to someBk > band Bk−1≥Bk, respectively.|Vn−k−1−Vn−k|has to converge
to zero as otherwise, in the limit,∑∞
i=1|Vi−1−Vi|> 1 (we define V0 = 1), yielding a
contradiction. However, iflimn→∞Vn−k = limn→∞Vn−k−1 =Bk, it follows that
Vn−k = (1−α)E[V|V ∈[Vn−k,Vn−k−1]] +αρ
n−1∑
j=i
ρj−(n−k) E[V 1V∈[Vj+1,Vj)|V ≤V(n−k)]
< (1−α)E[V|V ∈[Vn−k,Vn−k−1]] +αE[V|V ≤V(n−k−1)]
n→∞
= (1 −α)Bk +αBk <B k
which yields a contradiction so that we can conclude thatlimn→∞Vn = 0.
55
A Online Appendix
A.1 Bidder Heterogenity
Suppose again that there aren≥2 potential outside bidders and one large shareholder
L. We now add to the common value improvementV ∼F[0, 1] an idiosyncratic, bidder-
specific componentθi, privately observed by each outside bidderi∈{1,...,n}. Due to her
experience with the target company,V is still the large shareholder’s private information.
We assume thatθi are independently (also fromV) distributed according to some cdfG[0, 1].
The bidder specific component may stem from the fact that, in contrast toL, the outside
bidders are often non-financial bidders who have the potential to realize additional synergies
or private equity funds with specific expertise. If invited, outside bidders again compete in a
second price auction. By standard arguments,i’s optimal bid is given bybi = E[V|invite] +
θi.Hence, L’s choice between a tender offer and merger invite becomes
∆(V∗,P∗(V∗)) =V∗−(1−α)E[V|V ≥V∗]−αE[V|V ≤V∗]−αE[θ(n)
2 ], (30)
where E[θ(n)
2 ] is the expected second order statistic ofn independent draws fromG[0, 1].
Since E[θ(n)
2 ] is fixed fromL’s perspective, the cutoff structure of the equilibrium prevails.
Lemma 2. When bidders are heterogeneous, the likelihood of takeover activism increases
in the number of bidders.
Proof. Let
ξ(n,V∗) :=V∗−(1−α)E[V|V ≥V∗]−αE[V|V ≤V∗]−αE[θ(n)
2 ] = 0.
Because E[θ(n)
2 ] is independent ofV and ξ(n,V∗) strictly increases inV∗by log-concavity,
there is an implicit functionV∗(n) such that ∂V∗(n)
∂n > 0. Note that limn→∞E[θ(n)
2 ] = 1
such thatV∗(n =∞) > 1 since ξ(∞, 1) = α(1−E[V ]−1) < 0, and by log-concavity. By
continuity, we can conclude that there is an <∞such thatV∗≥1 for alln≥n and no
direct tender offers ever take place.
56
Example. Suppose we a sample of 2 transactions,F =G =U[0, 1], α= 0.1. The first
firm has oneL and n = 2 outside bidders. One can easily see that in this caseV∗= 1 and,
even for only 2 outside bidders, no direct tender offer ever occurs. The expected merger
priceP∗
merger is E[V ] + E[θ(n)
2 ] = 1. The second firm has oneL and no outside bidder. One
can easily see that in this caseV∗= 1−α
1+α= 0.9
1.1 such that tender offer isP∗= 1
1.1 < 1.
Hence, the tender offer is smaller than the expected merger price, i.e.,P∗= 1
1.1 < 1 =
P∗
merger. Further, the expected increase in firm value is also larger for takeover activism
since E[V|V ≥V∗] = 1
1.1 < 1 is smaller than the expected value improvement for a merger
is E[V ] + E[θ(n)
1 ]> 1.
A.2 Expected Profits
Expected Profits as a function ofn
• Ifn≤n, onlyLs enter such that profits are given byE[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ]> 0 and are,
thus, independent ofn.
• If n∈(n,n) and CaseI prevails, we known∗
L < 1 and n∗
B < 1. Hence, profits are
given by
E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ] +nB (E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ])  
L′sexpected profit
=nL E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]  
B′sexpected profit
Clearly, LHS is increasing innB and RHS is increasing innL. As n increases, either
nB ornL needs to increase strictly. To keep indifference, bothL’s andB’s expected
profit must increase.
• For CaseI, ifn≥n, then, we known∗
L≥1 and n∗
B < 1. Hence, profits are given by
E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ] +nB (E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
0 ])  
L′sexpected profit
= E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]  
B′sexpected profit
Clearly, LHS is increasing innB and RHS is constant innL. To keep indifference,
both L’s andB’s expected profit must remain constant. This also implies that
57
only nL can increase.
• Case II: n∗
B hits one first. Ifn∗
L < 1 still, entry profits are
E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] +nB (E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
2 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ])  
L′sexpected profit
=nL(2−nB)E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]  
B′sexpected profit
Asnincreases, eithernB, ornL (orboth)mustincrease. If nB increases, LHSincreases
which means that RHS also increases, which can only be accomplished through an
increase in nL. If nL increases, RHS increases (for fixed) nB such that nB must
increase as well so both sides increase. As a result, in either case, LHS and RHS
increase such that both expected profits still increase.
• Case II: n∗
B hits one first. Ifn∗
L≥1 as well, entry profits are
E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ] +nB (E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
2 ]−E[ΠL(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ])  
L′sexpected profit
= (2−nB)E[ΠB(V )|V∗=V∗
1 ]  
B′sexpected profit
Here, expected profits do not depend onnL anymore. FurthernB is constant. Hence,
profits are flat.
References
Akerlof, G. A. (1970), ‘The market for “lemons”: Quality uncertainty and the market
mechanism’,The Quarterly Journal of Economics84(3), 488–500.
At, C., Burkart, M. & Lee, S. (2011), ‘Security-voting structure and bidder screening’,
Journal of Financial Intermediation20, 458–76.
Bagnoli, M. & Bergstrom, T. (2005), ‘Log-concave probability and its applications’,Eco-
nomic Theory26(4), 445–469.
Barker, T. (2007), ‘On wall street: Symbiotic relationship between private equity and hedge
funds’,The Financial Times.
58
Barry, J., Brav, A. & Jiang, W. (2020), Hedge fund activism updated tables and figures,
Technical report, Working paper.
Bebchuk, L. A. & Hart, O. D. (2001), ‘Takeover bids vs. proxy fights in contests for corporate
control’.
Becht, M., Franks, J., Grant, J. & Wagner, H. F. (2017), ‘Returns to Hedge Fund Activism:
An International Study’,The Review of Financial Studies30(9), 2933–2971.
Beltran, L. (2020), ‘Silver lake buys stake in daniel loeb’s blank-check company to push
through global blue deal’,Barron’s. May 27.
Bertrand, M. & Mullainathan, S. (2003), ‘Enjoying the quiet life? corporate governance and
managerial preferences’,Journal of political Economy111(5), 1043–1075.
Billings, D. & Gump, A. (2005), ‘The convergence of hedge funds and private equity funds’,
The Hedge Fund Journal.
Bond, P. & Eraslan, H. (2010), ‘Information-based trade’,Journal of Economic Theory
145(5), 1675–1703.
Boyson, N. M., Gantchev, N. & Shivdasani, A. (2017), ‘Activism mergers’,Journal of Fi-
nancial Economics126(1), 54 – 73.
Braun, R., Dorau, N., Jenkinson, T. & Urban, D. (2023), ‘Size, returns, and value added:
Do private equity firms allocate capital according to manager skill?’,Working Paper.
Brav, A., Dasgupta, A. & Matthews, R. D. (2022), ‘Wolf pack activism’,Management
Science68(8), 5557–6354.
Brav, A., Jiang, W. & Li, R. (2021), ‘Governance by persuasion: Hedge fund activism and
market-based shareholder influence’.
Broccardo, E., Hart, O. & Zingales, L. (2020), ‘Exit vs. voice’.
Brown, G. W., Fei, C. Y. & Robinson, D. T. (2023), Portfolio management in private equity,
Technical report, Working Paper.
59
Brown, W. O., Liu, T. & Mulherin, J. H. (2022), ‘The development of the takeover auction
process: The evolution of property rights in the modern wild west’,The Journal of Law
and Economics65(4), 715–751.
Burkart, M. & Lee, S. (2015), ‘Signalling to dispersed shareholders and corporate control’,
The Review of Economic Studies82(3), 922–962.
Burkart, M. & Lee, S. (2016), ‘Smart buyers’,The Review of Corporate Finance Studies
5(2), 239–270.
Burkart, M. & Lee, S. (2022), ‘Activism and takeovers’,The Review of Financial Studies
35(4), 1868–1896.
Campbell, A. (2014), ‘Activist pershing square teams up with valeant pharmaceuticals to
target allergan inc.’,Mondaq . May 8.
Coffee, J. C. (1984), ‘Regulating the market for corporate control: A critical assessment of
the tender offer’s role in corporate governance’,Columbia Law Review84, 1145–1149.
Crawford, A. S. & Gruenberg, M. J. (2020), ‘Friend or foe? the convergence of private
equity and shareholder activism’,Harvard Law School Forum on Corporate Governance.
March 21, 2020.
Cremers, M. & Ferrell, A. (2014), ‘Thirty years of shareholder rights and firm value’,The
Journal of Finance69(3), 1167–1196.
Dasgupta, A. & Piacentino, G. (2015), ‘The wall street walk when blockholders compete for
flows’,The Journal of Finance70(6), 2853–2896.
Denes, M. R., Karpoff, J. M. & McWilliams, V. B. (2017), ‘Thirty years of shareholder
activism: A survey of empirical research’,Journal of Corporate Finance44, 405–424.
Eckbo, B. E. (2009), ‘Bidding strategies and takeover premiums: A review’,Journal of
Corporate Finance15(1), 149–178.
60
Eckbo, B. E., Malenko, A. & Thorburn, K. S. (2020), ‘Strategic decisions in takeover auc-
tions: Recent developments’,Annual Review of Financial Economics12(1), 237–276.
Edmans, A. & Holderness, C. G. (2017), ‘Blockholders: A survey of theory and evidence’,
The handbook of the economics of corporate governance1, 541–636.
Edmans, A., Levit, D. & Reilly, D. (2018), ‘Governance Under Common Ownership’,The
Review of Financial Studies32(7), 2673–2719.
Edmans, A. & Manso, G. (2010), ‘Governance Through Trading and Intervention: A Theory
of Multiple Blockholders’,The Review of Financial Studies24(7), 2395–2428.
Ekmekci, M. & Kos, N. (2016), ‘Information in tender offers with a large shareholder’,
Econometrica84(1), 87–139.
Eldar, O., Kirmse, T. & Wittry, M. D. (2023), ‘The rise of anti-activist poison pills’,ECGI
Finance Working Paper No. 869/2023.
Fos, V. (2017), ‘The disciplinary effects of proxy contests’,Management Science63(3), 655–
671.
Gandel, S. (2015), ‘Sec’s mary jo white criticizes shareholder activism and bill ackman deal’,
Fortune Magazine. March 19.
Gilson, R. J. & Gordon, J. N. (2013), ‘The agency costs of agency capitalism: Activist
investors and the revaluation of governance rights’,Colum. L. Rev.113, 863.
Glode, V. & Opp, C. (2016), ‘Asymmetric information and intermediation chains’,American
Economic Review106(9), 2699–2721.
Goldfarb, B. (2020), ‘Companies need to plan for the convergence of private equity and
shareholder activism’,Forbes.
Gorbenko, A. S. & Malenko, A. (2022), ‘Auctions with endogenous initiation’,Journal of
Finance .
61
Gorbenko, A. S. & Malenko, A. (forthcoming), ‘Auctions with endogenous initiation’,The
Journal of Finance.
Greenwood, R. & Schor, M. (2009), ‘Investor activism and takeovers’,Journal of Financial
Economics92(3), 362–375.
Grossman, S. J. & Hart, O. D. (1980), ‘Takeover Bids, the Free-Rider Problem, and the
Theory of the Corporation’,Bell Journal of Economics11(1), 42–64.
Grossman, S. J. & Perry, M. (1986), ‘Perfect sequential equilibrium’,Journal of Economic
Theory39(1), 97 – 119.
Hirschman, A. O. (1970),Exit, voice, and loyalty: Responses to decline in firms, organiza-
tions, and states, Vol. 25, Harvard university press.
Hirshleifer, D. & Titman, S. (1990), ‘Share tendering strategies and the success of hostile
takeover bids’,Journal of Political Economy98(2), 295–324.
Holmstrom, B. & Kaplan, S. N. (2001), ‘Corporate governance and merger activity in the
united states: Making sense of the 1980s and 1990s’,Journal of Economic Perspectives
15(2), 121–144.
Kahle, K. M. & Stulz, R. M. (2017), ‘Is the us public corporation in trouble?’,Journal of
Economic Perspectives31(3), 67–88.
Kaplan, S. N. & Stromberg, P. (2009), ‘Leveraged buyouts and private equity’,Journal of
economic perspectives23(1), 121–46.
Karpoff, J. M. & Wittry, M. D. (2022), ‘Corporate takeover defenses’,Fisher College of
Business Working Paper(2022-03), 009.
Klein, E., Crawford, A. S., Mahon, J. J. & Swartz, M. E. (2020), ‘Shareholders’ rights
shareholder activism’,Chambers: Global Practice Guides.
Kyle, A. S. (1985), ‘Continuous auctions and insider trading’,Econometrica53(6), 1315–
1335.
62
Kyle, A. S. & Vila, J.-L. (1991), ‘Noise trading and takeovers’,The RAND Journal of
Economics22(1), 54–71.
Levit, D. (2018), ‘Soft shareholder activism’,Review of Financial Studies, Forthcoming.
Levit, D. & Corum, A. (2019), ‘Corporate control activism’,Journal of Financial Economics
133(1), 1–17.
Liu, T. & Mulherin, J. H. (2019), ‘How has takeover competition changed over time?’,
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance31(1), 81–94.
Louch, W. (2019), ‘Elliott raises2billionforbuyouts,preps 4 billion hedge-fund push’,Wall
Street Journal. November 4.
Marquez, R. & Yılmaz, B. (2008), ‘Information and efficiency in tender offers’,Econometrica
76, 1075–1101.
Marquez, R. & Yılmaz, B. (2012), ‘Takeover Bidding and Shareholder Information’,The
Review of Corporate Finance Studies1(1), 1–27.
Masulis, R. W. & Simsir, S. A. (2018), ‘Deal initiation in mergers and acquisitions’,The
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis53(6), pp. 2389–2430.
Maug, E. (1998), ‘Large shareholders as monitors: Is there a trade-off between liquidity and
control?’,Journal of Finance53(1), 65–98.
Moeser, A. (2019), ‘Private equity and activism’,Harvard Law School Forum on Corporate
Governance . April 10, 2019.
Myers, S. C. & Majluf, N. S. (1984), ‘Corporate financing and investment decisions when
firms have information that investors do not have’,Journal of Financial Economics
13(2), 187–221.
Nachman, D. C. & Noe, T. H. (1994), ‘Optimal design of securities under asymmetric
information’,Review of Financial Studies7(1), 1 – 44.
63
Renneboog, L. & Vansteenkiste, C. (2017), ‘Leveraged buyouts: Motives and sources of
value’,Annals of Corporate Governance2(4), 291–389.
Shleifer, A. & Vishny, R. W. (1986), ‘Large shareholders and corporate control’,Journal of
Political Economy94(3), 461–488.
Sorkin, A. R. (2007), ‘Will credit crisis end the activists’ run?’,The New York Times.
Voss, P. (2022), ‘Short-term debt and corporate governance’.
Voss, P. & Kulms, M. (2022), ‘Separating ownership and information’,American Economic
Review112(9), 3039–62.
64
about ECGI
The European Corporate Governance Institute has been established to improve corpo-
rate governance through fostering independent scientific research and related activities.
The ECGI will produce and disseminate high quality research while remaining close to 
the concerns and interests of corporate, financial and public policy makers. It will draw on 
the expertise of scholars from numerous countries and bring together a critical mass of 
expertise and interest to bear on this important subject.
The views expressed in this working paper are those of the authors, not those of the ECGI 
or its members. 
www.ecgi.global
ECGI Working Paper Series in Finance
Editorial Board
Editor  Mike Burkart, Professor of Finance, London School                 
 of Economics and Political Science
Consulting Editors Renée Adams, Professor of Finance, University of Oxford
 Franklin Allen, Nippon Life Professor of Finance, Professor of  
 Economics, The Wharton School of the University of   
 Pennsylvania
 Julian Franks, Professor of Finance, London Business School
 Mireia Giné, Associate Professor, IESE Business School 
 Marco Pagano, Professor of Economics, Facoltà di Economia
 Università di Napoli Federico II
 Editorial Assistant Asif Malik, Working Paper Series Manager 
 
www.ecgi.global/content/working-papers
Electronic Access to the Working Paper Series
The full set of ECGI working papers can be accessed through the Institute’s Web-site 
(www.ecgi.global/content/working-papers) or SSRN:
Finance Paper Series  http://www.ssrn.com/link/ECGI-Fin.html 
Law Paper Series  http://www.ssrn.com/link/ECGI-Law.html 
www.ecgi.global/content/working-papers