Shareholder Activism, Takeovers, and
Managerial Discipline⋆
Francesco Celentanoa Oliver Levineb
a University of Lausanne and Swiss Finance Institute
b University of Wisconsin–Madison, Wisconsin School of Business
October 1, 2025
ABSTRACT
We quantitatively assess the role of activism in the market for corporate control by
developing and estimating a model featuring both activism and M&A. We ﬁnd that
activism complements M&A, reducing the agency frictions associated with takeovers.
However, activism simultaneously crowds out some M&A activity by substituting for
disciplinary takeovers. Both the threat of activism and actual activist intervention
create shareholder value by improving CEO incentives, while the value from reduced
takeover frictions is primarily captured by acquirers. We ﬁnd that activists have an
information advantage, which is critical to overcoming the free rider problem in activist
intervention.
JEL classiﬁcation: G34, G32, G39, G23, G14
Keywords: Shareholder activism, Mergers and acquisitions (M&A), Corporate governance, Agency
conﬂicts
⋆Celentano: francesco.celentano@unil.ch, Levine: oliver.levine@wisc.edu.
We thank Anthony DeFusco, R¨ udiger Fahlenbrach, Nickolay Gantchev, Nadya Malenko, Antonio Mello,
Erwan Morellec, Maniraj Muthyala (discussant), Boris Nikolov, Stefano Sacchetto (discussant), Enrique
Schroth, Norman Sch¨ urhoﬀ, Roberto Steri, and Wenyu Wang and seminar and conference participants at the
University of Wisconsin-Madison, University of Geneva, HEC Lausanne/EPFL, SFI Research Days, St.Gallen
Financial Economics Workshop, the 5th Conference on Corporate Policies and Asset Prices Conference
(COAP), and 2025 FMA Conference. We thank Philip Coyle for excellent research assistance. We are
grateful to Alon Brav for providing data on hedge fund activism campaigns.
The management and board of directors of a corporation may fail to maximize the value
of the ﬁrm due to misaligned incentives with shareholders. While this agency conﬂict is
costly to shareholders, mismanaged assets also represent an opportunity for outsiders that
can intervene and capture a portion of the surplus generated. Both corporate takeover and
shareholder activism are prominent examples of such market mechanisms, and both can
serve similar disciplinary roles in overcoming agency conﬂicts (Manne, 1965; Grossman and
Hart, 1980; Jensen, 1986; Shleifer and Vishny, 1986; Scharfstein, 1988; Admati et al., 1994).
If these interventions are substitutes, activism has the potential to crowd out merger and
acquisition (M&A) activity.
At the same time, shareholder activism can facilitate corporate takeover, for example, by
acting as a credible negotiator (Corum and Levit, 2019), or by threat of a proxy ﬁght should
management resist acquisition (Johnson and Swem, 2021; Burkart and Lee, 2022; Burkart
et al., 2024). Indeed, empirical evidence ﬁnds that much of the returns to activism comes
from campaigns that involve M&A, suggesting a valuable role for activism in the takeover
process (Greenwood and Schor, 2009; Boyson et al., 2017). To the extent that activists
facilitate or bring about takeover, the roles of activism and M&A can serve as complements,
and activism may promote takeover activity. The degree to which activism complements
M&A and/or serves as a substitutable disciplinary mechanism is an open question (Denes
et al., 2017) and requires considering equilibrium eﬀects of the threat of these actors on
the actions of managers and directors. Answering this question is necessary to understand
the role activism plays in the market for corporate control and as an external governance
mechanism.
We develop a quantitative model of shareholder activism and acquisition to assess the role
of activism in shaping manager incentives and in the M&A market. In the model, activists
have two technologies to aﬀect ﬁrm outcomes during a campaign. The ﬁrst is the ability to
incentivize management to exert eﬀort by reducing managerial entrenchment in the board’s
decision to replace a CEO. The second is the ability to facilitate takeover of the target ﬁrm
by helping to align incentives between insiders and shareholders in takeover negotiations. In
both cases, the activist is able to reduce managerial and board entrenchment as a credible
representative of shareholders. The model also accommodates activist private information
1
about future project quality and the value of being acquired, informing the activist’s decision
to launch a campaign. The structural model allows us to estimate empirically the degree
to which the activist aﬀects both manager incentives and real outcomes at target ﬁrms,
as well as disentangle the information and intervention channels of activist campaigns. By
performing counterfactual experiments, we also quantify the eﬀects of the threat of activism
and takeovers in equilibrium outcomes.
We use the simulated method of moments (SMM) to estimate the model using data
on U.S. public ﬁrms, shareholder activism, and M&A activity from 2001 to 2019. Our
identiﬁcation strategy consists of matching key moments related to ﬁrm performance, CEO
turnovers, activist campaigns, and takeover bids. Our model matches well these data pat-
terns that inform the unobserved parameters related to the eﬀect of activism on the decisions
of management and the board as well as the activists’ private information and costs.
We ﬁnd that an activist campaign signiﬁcantly reduces the agency frictions to takeover,
increasing the probability of takeover by 7.7 percent when a campaign is launched. In
other words, about 7 percent of deals that occur during a campaign are marginal to activist
intervention, suggesting a signiﬁcant role of activism in the M&A market. However, takeover
facilitation is a double-edged sword for shareholders of target ﬁrms because agency frictions
strengthen the negotiating position of the board (Wang and Wu, 2020). Therefore, while an
activist campaign increases the likelihood a takeover occurs by reducing agency frictions, it
also lowers the price conditional on a takeover. Bid premia are 13.7 percent (5.2 percentage
points) lower due to activist presence during negotiations. Taken together, the average
activist campaign adds only a modest amount of shareholder value, about 6 basis points,
through their takeover facilitation technology. However, shareholder beneﬁts are large (15.4
percent) in the 7 percent of deals marginal to activist intervention.
Beyond takeover facilitation, activists improve manager incentives to exert eﬀort by mak-
ing it less costly for the board to replace an underperforming manager. This manifests in both
the model and data as signiﬁcantly higher CEO turnover rates during activist campaigns.
We estimate that through this channel, the average activist campaign increases shareholder
value by 0.35 percent, and increases ﬁrm productivity by 1.17 percent. These results sug-
gest that the ability to incentivize management to improve operations adds more value for
2
shareholders than does takeover facilitation in the average campaign. This is consistent
with studies that have shown that turnover rates are suboptimally low from the perspective
of shareholders (Taylor, 2010; Taylor, 2013; Wu, 2018; Frydman and Papanikolaou, 2018),
making a reduction in the agency frictions to turnover a valuable intervention provided by
activists.
The results discussed so far consider the average eﬀect of individual activist campaigns in
the economy. However, to understand the role of activism more generally, one must consider
the equilibrium eﬀects of the possibility or threat of activism on manager and board decisions
and ﬁrm outcomes. Indeed, the literature has found evidence that the threat of activism
aﬀects ﬁrm outcomes and behavior (Aslan and Kumar, 2016; Gantchev et al., 2018; Johnson
and Swem, 2021; Eldar et al., 2023). For example, the possibility of an activist campaign
may compel management to exert higher eﬀort even when the activist is on the sidelines,
leading to an equilibrium where few campaigns are launched. In this case, the equilibrium
eﬀect of activism as a mechanism may be large, even if activist campaigns are rare. Exploring
the equilibrium eﬀects of activism also allows us to determine whether activism crowds out
or promotes takeover activity, and to better understand the social value of activism as a
market mechanism.
To this end, we perform counterfactual experiments to quantify the eﬀects of the threat
of activism on equilibrium outcomes. While an individual activist campaign increases the
likelihood of takeover, perhaps counterintuitively, we ﬁnd that the presence of activists in
the economy has essentially zero net eﬀect on the volume of takeovers in equilibrium. To
understand this result, we decompose the eﬀects of activism. The activists’ takeover fa-
cilitation technology signiﬁcantly reduces frictions to takeovers when campaigns occur and
this channel increases takeover activity. However, at the same time, the activists’ role in
providing eﬀort incentives to management improves the standalone value of the ﬁrm, in turn
reducing the potential surplus from takeover. This lower surplus means that some deals on
the margin no longer occur. Through this channel, activism crowds out M&A activity—
about 0.8 percent of total volume—acting as a partial substitute for takeovers. Combining
the eﬀects of these two channels, takeover volume is essentially unchanged by the presence of
activists in the economy despite conﬁrming evidence of a strong facilitation role of activists
3
in the M&A process.
Although we ﬁnd no increase in takeover activity from the presence of activists in the
economy, we ﬁnd that their presence provides signiﬁcant value to shareholders. We esti-
mate that ﬁrm equity value is 0.33 percent higher on average than in an equivalent ﬁrm
in the counterfactual economy without activists. In other words, the activist threat adds
signiﬁcant value to shareholders, even when a ﬁrm is not the target of a campaign. This
increased shareholder value comes entirely from improved eﬀort incentives for managers and
the corresponding higher productivity, rather than reduced frictions to takeovers.
Surprisingly, the eﬀect of the activist threat on shareholder value is of similar magnitude
to that of an actual campaign. As the activist threat applies to every potential target, the
economy-wide value eﬀect of the activist threat is signiﬁcantly greater than the campaigns
themselves, which applies to only about 4 percent of ﬁrm-years. This also implies that
activists capture only on a small fraction of the shareholder value they generate in the
economy.
In light of our ﬁnding that activism crowds out some takeover activity, it is worth noting
the externalities associated with activism in the M&A market. Externalities arise because
the takeover surplus is shared between the target and acquirer, and the target shareholders
do not internalize surplus lost (or gained) by a potential acquirer. Thus, when a takeover
is crowded out due to improved manager incentives, acquirer surplus is lost, resulting in a
negative externality to activism. We ﬁnd that 0.37 percent of aggregate acquirer surplus
is lost as a result of takeovers that are crowded out by activism. On the other side of the
coin, takeover facilitation generates a positive externality, as marginal deals are more likely
to be completed, generating acquirer surplus. We ﬁnd that this channel more than oﬀsets
the negative externality and, on net, aggregate acquirer surplus increases 0.22 percent due
to activism. This result highlights a social beneﬁt of activism beyond returns to target
shareholders, as more surplus-generating acquisitions occur when activists intervene.
Our model incorporates the possibility that the activist has private information about the
target ﬁrm that informs their decision to launch a campaign. Before taking a position, the
activist obtains a private signal about the quality of the ﬁrm’s investment opportunities in
the coming year; higher quality projects have higher expected returns to manager eﬀort. The
4
activist receives a separate signal about the value that would be generated by being acquired
in the coming year, reﬂecting the quality of a potential acquirer. The activist makes an entry
decision based on these private signals, along with publicly observable ﬁrm performance. The
role of information interacts with the activists’ intervention technologies—speciﬁcally, the
ability to incentivize manager eﬀort and facilitate takeover during a campaign.
The model allows us to quantify the degree to which activists generate returns through
interventions that generate shareholder value (treatment eﬀects) or by having superior in-
formation about future ﬁrm outcomes (selection eﬀects). Separating these eﬀects is a fun-
damental question in the activism literature (Albuquerque et al., 2022), but is diﬃcult to
identify empirically in a reduced form setting.
The model estimates indicate that information serves a signiﬁcant role in the activist’s
decision to launch a campaign, and the return that the activist generates. Of the 4.1 percent
average return around the announcement of an activist campaign, we estimate that superior
information about potential takeovers drives 76 percent of the announcement return, with
14 percent coming from information about projects. Of the return attributable to treatment
eﬀects, most is due to increased eﬀort incentives.
Although most of the return to activist entry comes from superior information, this does
not mean that the eﬀects of intervention are not sizable. As discussed earlier, the presence of
activists in the economy adds signiﬁcant value to shareholders, and much of this value comes
from the threat of intervention. If activists were ineﬀectual and trading was based solely on
superior information, these beneﬁts would disappear. Conversely, we show that if activists
have less of an information advantage, they enter less often and shareholders are worse oﬀ.
Therefore, shareholders beneﬁt from the information advantage of activists. In summary, we
ﬁnd that the activists’ information advantage is critical to overcoming the free-rider problem
in activist intervention—namely, that the costs of a campaign are borne by the activist but
the beneﬁts are shared broadly—and increases shareholder value.
The regulatory and legal environment surrounding shareholder activism plays a signiﬁcant
role in the cost of activism and in the decision to launch a campaign. To quantify these eﬀects,
we perform a policy experiment in the model by varying the costs of activism. Consistent
with our previous results, we ﬁnd that making activism more costly reduces eﬀort incentives
5
and productivity. However, it also increases the perceived eﬀects of intervention, such as
higher turnover rates when an activist is present, as activists require stronger signals before
launching a campaign.
Many have argued that hedge funds are the most eﬃcient market player to act as share-
holder activists due to their expertise and the limited regulation to which they are subject.
Accordingly, an extended literature focuses on the impact of hedge fund activists, docu-
menting that hedge funds improve real and ﬁnancial outcomes of the ﬁrms they target (Brav
et al., 2010 provides a survey). To explore this possibility, we estimate our model in which we
consider only activist campaigns that include a hedge fund. Consistent with these hypothe-
ses, we ﬁnd evidence that hedge fund activists are more eﬀective in incentivizing managerial
eﬀort and better at facilitating takeovers. We also ﬁnd that hedge funds appear to have
more private information about potential acquirers. We further test whether the eﬃcacy of
activists has improved over time by estimating our model in the ﬁrst and second half of our
sample. We ﬁnd evidence that it has, but only in terms of facilitating takeovers. Interest-
ingly, we estimate a signiﬁcant increase over time in the private information that activists
obtain prior to launching a campaign.
We contribute to multiple strands of the literature. Our paper relates to the theoretical
literature on shareholder activism. 1 Our estimates of a signiﬁcant facilitation role of ac-
tivism in the M&A market provide empirical support for Corum and Levit (2019), Burkart
and Lee (2022), and Burkart et al. (2024). However, our results suggest that, despite the
facilitation role, the presence of activists in the economy may not increase M&A volume, as
the eﬀort incentive provided by activists crowds out some takeover activity. We also show
that much of the gains from takeover facilitation may be captured by acquirer rather than
target shareholders.
We add to the empirical literature on activist investors and their impact on governance
and ﬁrm policies. 2 Consistent with Greenwood and Schor (2009), we provide additional
1For example, Maug (1998), Kahn and Winton (1998), Mello and Repullo (2004), DeMarzo and Uroˇ sevi´ c
(2006), Burkart and Lee (2015), Back et al. (2018), Levit (2019), Brav et al. (2022), Gorbenko and Malenko
(2024), Gryglewicz et al. (2025a), and Gryglewicz et al. (2025b). Edmans and Holderness (2017) provides a
survey of this work.
2For example, Brav et al. (2008), Cronqvist and Fahlenbrach (2009), Klein and Zur (2009), Brav et al.
(2015), Norli et al. (2015), Boyson et al. (2017), Gantchev et al. (2018), Jiang et al. (2018), Brav et al.
(2018), Fos (2019), Gantchev et al. (2020), Bebchuk et al. (2020), and Dasgupta et al. (2021).
6
evidence that activists generate signiﬁcant returns in campaigns related to takeovers. How-
ever, we ﬁnd that most of the value generated for shareholders comes from improving the
manager’s eﬀort incentives. Our paper provides empirical evidence on three key research
questions in the activism literature (Denes et al., 2017). First, we disentangle the extent
to which the takeover market and shareholder activism are substitutes or complements for
disciplining managers and driving corporate change. Second, we study not only the value
generated when activists’ campaigns are launched or takeovers occur, but also the value that
stems from the threat of activist and acquirer intervention. Third, we quantify whether ac-
tivist investors generate returns primarily through their stock-picking ability or their capacity
to inﬂuence management and the board. We ﬁnd that much of the activist announcement
return is the result of superior information, a selection eﬀect. This ﬁnding contrasts with
Albuquerque et al. (2022) who ﬁnds that a majority of the activist announcement return
is attributable to treatment eﬀects. Our studies diﬀer in several dimensions making a di-
rect comparison diﬃcult. Albuquerque et al. (2022) uses information on passive and active
investor ﬁlings within a structural model of ﬁling choice to identify treatment eﬀects. In
contrast, we use the full Compustat sample and consider only active investor ﬁlings within
a model that quantiﬁes the speciﬁc roles of activism in improving insider incentives. While
not the primary focus of our study, we view our ﬁndings as an additional piece of evidence
in understanding treatment and selection eﬀects in activist returns.
Finally, our paper adds to the structural literature in corporate ﬁnance. We advance
the structural empirical literature on activism (Albuquerque and Schroth, 2010; Gantchev,
2013; Albuquerque and Schroth, 2015; Johnson and Swem, 2021; Albuquerque et al., 2022)
by studying the interplay between activism, M&A, information, and agency frictions. In line
with these papers, we use a structural approach to provide empirical evidence on questions,
such as the equilibrium eﬀects of the threat of activism and takeovers, that are challenging
to study in a reduced form setting. We also complement the structural ﬁnance literature on
M&A by quantifying the role of activism in the market for corporate control. 3
3For example, Dimopoulos and Sacchetto (2014), Gorbenko and Malenko (2014), Dimopoulos and Sac-
chetto (2017), Levine (2017), Li et al. (2018), Wang (2018), Gorbenko (2019), Gentry and Stroup (2019),
Wang and Wu (2020), and Celik et al. (2022).
7
1. Model
The model features a ﬁrm led by a manager and overseen by a board of directors, a
potential activist investor, and a potential acquirer. Time is discrete and indexed by t, and
the horizon is inﬁnite. All agents are risk-neutral and share a common discount factor, β.
Figure 1 illustrates the timeline of the model decision points and information environ-
ment, which we brieﬂy summarize; details are provided in the following sections. At the
beginning of each period, the ﬁrm generates proﬁts based on its productivity ( zt) that all
agents in the economy observe, and pays a dividend. The ﬁrm faces two i.i.d. shocks, one
about the eﬀect of a project, if implemented, on productivity ( project quality, pt) and an-
other related to the value of being acquired ( acquirer quality, wt). Before these shocks are
observed, the potential activist investor receives a private signal about each ( sp,t and sw,t).
Based on this information, the investor decides whether to buy a stake in the ﬁrm and launch
an activism campaign (νt). After the entry decision, the activist’s choice and private infor-
mation become common knowledge. Subsequently, the manager and the board observe the
project’s quality and the manager decides whether to exert eﬀort and undertake the project
(et). In response to the manager’s choice, the board decides whether to replace or retain the
manager (ft). At that point, next period standalone ﬁrm productivity is realized (zt+1). The
potential acquirer and board learn the quality of the takeover opportunity, negotiate a price
(Pt), and the decision as to whether the takeover will occur is made ( at). If an agreement is
reached, the takeover is announced and the share price adjusts. The activist sells their stake
in the ﬁrm, ending the campaign. On a successful takeover, the ﬁrm exits; otherwise, the
ﬁrm remains standalone and continues to operate in the next period.
1.1. Production technology
Each period, the ﬁrm generates proﬁts,
πt =ztkα
t−ckkt, (1)
where α∈ (0, 1) captures the returns to scale of the production technology, and ck > 0 is
the rental rate of capital. The ﬁrm chooses capital kt in each period without adjustment
costs or lag, making its capital choice a static problem. The ﬁrm’s productivity, zt, evolves
8
according to the following process:
exp{ln(zt+1)} = exp{(1−ρz)µz +ρz ln(zt) +σzεt+1} +etpt. (2)
If one ignores the ﬁnal term, the ﬁrm’s productivity follows a standard AR(1) process in
logs, where µz is the permanent component of the process, ρz∈ (0, 1) governs the process
persistence, σz captures the volatility of the process, and εt+1 is an innovation shock that
follows a standard normal distribution. The ﬁnal term, etpt, captures the productivity
improvement that a ﬁrm obtains if the manager chooses to undertake, at private cost, the
value-enhancing project. The ﬁrst factor, et, is an indicator that equals 1 if the manager
decides to exert eﬀort and undertake the project and 0 otherwise. The second factor, pt≥ 0,
represents the project quality, which is drawn independently in each period and distributed
as an exponential distribution with rate λp. The value of pt is realized at the beginning of
the period and known to the manager when choosing whether to undertake the project. The
manager’s eﬀort choice is discussed in Section 1.3.
1.2. Activist’s entry decision
Each period, after proﬁts are realized and dividends paid, a potential activist investor
receives two signals, sp,t andsw,t, providing information about the ﬁrm’s project quality, pt,
and the quality of a potential acquirer,wt, respectively. We assume that the activist investor
receives these signals at zero marginal cost. 4 Similar to project quality, the random variable
capturing acquirer quality, wt≥ 0, is exponentially distributed with rate λw. Each of the
two signals that the activist receives follows
st,x =xt +σxηt,x withx∈{p,w}, (3)
whereσx captures the degree of the signal’s noise and ηt,x is an i.i.d. standard normal shock.
After observing the private signals, the investor decides whether to initiate an activist
campaign by acquiring a fractional ownership of size ¯ν in the ﬁrm. The activist chooses their
4We assume that information collection is part of the ﬁxed costs of operation for these investors. As a
sunk cost, adding this cost to the model would not aﬀect the activist’s decision to launch a campaign and is
therefore omitted. The marginal costs associated with launching a campaign are discussed below.
9
ownership stake, νt, by solving the following problem:
max
νt∈{0,¯ν}
βE [V (zt+1)|zt, sp,t, sw,t, νt]νt− (1 +ξ)(V (zt)−πt)νt, (4)
where E [V (zt+1)|zt, sp,t, sw,t, νt] is the expected next period value of the ﬁrm, V (zt)−πt
is the ex-dividend value of the ﬁrm that does not yet incorporate the activist’s private
information, and ξ >0 is a parameter capturing the marginal costs that an activist incurs
from entering. For example, the termξV (zt)νt reﬂects the costs arising from limited liquidity
and information leakages associated with large share purchases as well as expected campaign
costs.5 After the activist makes its entry decision, the campaign and private signals become
public information and the share price updates.
1.3. Manager’s eﬀort choice
After the activist’s entry decision, the manager and board observe the true project quality
pt, in addition to learning the activist’s private signals and entry decision. The manager
decides whether to exert eﬀort to undertake the project, et∈{ 0, 1}, by trading oﬀ private
costs associated with undertaking the project and the beneﬁts of increased ﬁrm productivity
by maximizing their expected utility,
M(zt) =θdπt + max
et∈{0,1}
{
et(−ceπt +βE [(1−ft)(1−at)M(zt+1)|zt, νt, pt, sw,t, et =1])
+ (1−et)βE [(1−ft)(1−at)M(zt+1)|zt, νt, pt, sw,t, et =0]
}
, (5)
where the manager’s private cost from undertaking the project is ceπt and θd∈ (0, 1) is the
fraction of the proﬁts πt that the manager receives each period while employed by the ﬁrm.
The indicators ft and at reﬂect whether the manager separates from the ﬁrm or a takeover
occurs at the end of the period, respectively. If the board replaces the manager or the ﬁrm
is acquired, the manager stops receiving compensation. Manager turnover and ﬁrm takeover
are discussed in detail in the following sections.
The manager can reduce the possibility of replacement and takeover as well as increase ex-
pected future compensation by undertaking the project. However, implementing the project
5Modeling the marginal costs of each stage of an activist campaign, and the activists’ decision to escalate
a campaign, is beyond the scope of this paper. See Gantchev (2013) and Johnson and Swem (2021) for
studies that provide estimates of these within-campaign marginal costs and choices.
10
entails a private cost to the manager who trades-oﬀ this personal disutility with higher
survival chances and expected compensation. We assume that the cost of undertaking the
project is increasing in ﬁrms proﬁts. This assumption captures the idea that implement-
ing changes is both operationally harder and strategically costlier in larger, more proﬁtable
ﬁrms. In addition, each period the manager receives a preference shock that aﬀects the
decision to undertake the project. Common in discrete choice models, the preference shock
captures elements outside of the model that could aﬀect the manager’s decision to undertake
the project.
1.4. Board’s CEO turnover decision
Following the manager’s decision on whether to undertake the project, the board decides
whether to retain or replace the manager. If turnover occurs, we assume that the board
chooses a replacement who will implement the project. This makes turnover a credible
threat by the board that aﬀects the manager’s eﬀort choice. However, turnover is privately
costly for the board, capturing managerial entrenchment, similar to Taylor (2010) and Taylor
(2013). Therefore, the board trades oﬀ the beneﬁt of undertaking the project against the
cost of turnover in their decision to replace the manager:
max
ft∈{0,1}
{
ft(−cf(νt)πt +βE [V (zt+1)|zt, νt, pt, sw,t, et =1])
+ (1−ft)βE [V (zt+1)|zt, νt, pt, sw,t, et])
}
, (6)
where cf(νt)πt is the board’s private cost of replacing the manager. We allow the board’s
private cost of CEO turnover,cf(νt), to depend on the presence of an activist, as a campaign
may help to align incentives between the board and shareholders and reduce agency frictions
in the turnover decision. Through this channel, the activist is able to improve manager
incentives and operational outcomes. Once the board has made its turnover decision, next
period productivity is realized.
As with the manager’s project decision, we assume the board receives an unobserved
preference shock that aﬀects its turnover decision. This means that the manager is not
able to perfectly predict the board’s action when making the project decision, and that
turnover is possible even if the manager chooses to undertake the project. While the board
11
technically makes the turnover decision in the model, the combination of preference shocks
on the manager’s eﬀort and board’s turnover decisions means that the model generates some
CEO turnover that occurs for purely idiosyncratic, rather than performance-based, reasons.
This is a desirable feature of the model as we are not able to identify the speciﬁc cause of
CEO turnover in our data.
1.5. Takeover phase
After next period productivity for the standalone ﬁrm ( zt+1) is realized, the quality of
the potential acquirer, wt, is revealed to the acquirer and board. If a takeover occurs, the
ﬁrm’s productivityzt+1 becomes wt. This is a parsimonious approach to capture the surplus
generated from a merger, reﬂecting a technological transfer from the acquirer to the target
(Jovanovic and Rousseau, 2002). Therefore, from the perspective of the potential acquirer,
we assume that the surplus from an acquisition for a given takeover price Pt is
V (wt)−Pt. (7)
In takeover negotiations, we allow the board to be imperfectly aligned with shareholders
and have a private cost associated with takeover (Baron, 1983; Bebchuk and Cohen, 2005;
Corum and Levit, 2019; Wang and Wu, 2020). Speciﬁcally, if takeover occurs at price Pt,
the board’s surplus is
(1−cm(νt))Pt−V (zt+1), (8)
where V (zt+1) is the standalone value of the ﬁrm. The board’s private costs of takeover
represent the potential loss of a board seat and the inﬂuence of entrenched management on
the board’s takeover decision. The level of entrenchment is captured by cm(νt). As with the
turnover decision, we allow the level of entrenchment to depend on the presence of an activist
as a campaign may help to align incentives between the board and shareholders. This is the
second way through which an activist can beneﬁt shareholders, by reducing agency frictions
in the takeover process.
The board and potential acquirer negotiate a takeover price Pt via Nash bargaining with
acquirer bargaining power ofθa. With the surplus of the board and potential acquirer deﬁned
12
above, this gives a negotiated price of
Pt = (1−θa)V (wt) +θa
V (zt+1)
1−cm(νt). (9)
The acquisition is agreed to if both parties generate a positive surplus from the deal; other-
wise, no takeover occurs.
1.6. Shareholder value
Shareholders value the ﬁrm as the expected discounted value of cash ﬂows based on
available public information. The shareholder value of the ﬁrm at the beginning of the
period is
V (zt) =πt +βE [atPt + (1−at)V (zt+1)|zt], (10)
which updates in response to new information as it’s revealed.
1.7. Model mechanism
Figure 2 illustrates the likelihood of an activist’s entry as a function of their private signals
and the ﬁrm’s productivity. The left panel shows that the higher the signal value—either
about the acquirer quality (sw,t) or the project quality (sp,t)—the higher the probability that
an activist decides to launch a campaign. The two pieces of information are complementary
in incentivizing the activist’s intervention. The middle panel depicts the likelihood of an
activist’s entry as a function of the signal of the acquirer’s quality and the ﬁrm’s productivity
(zt). A better signal increases the likelihood of launching a campaign, and this is decreasing
in the ﬁrm’s productivity. This is because higher productivity increases the standalone
value of the ﬁrm, reducing the potential surplus from takeover. Finally, the right panel
shows the probability of activist entry as a function of the signal on project quality and ﬁrm
productivity. Again, entry probability is increasing in the signal, but slightly decreasing in
productivity. This reﬂects the higher returns to undertaking the project, in percent terms,
when productivity is low.
The top two panels of Figure 3 show the probability of turnover and takeover as functions
of project quality (pt), acquirer quality (wt), and the ﬁrm’s productivity ( zt). The top left
panel illustrates that the probability of managerial turnover is positively related to project
13
quality and negatively related to ﬁrm productivity. This is because the board’s turnover
costs are increasing in proﬁts, while the returns to undertaking the project are not. The
top right panel reveals an analogous relationship between the probability of a takeover and
the acquirer quality and the ﬁrm’s productivity. The probability of a takeover is increasing
in the acquirer quality, but is decreasing in the ﬁrm’s productivity. This is because the
ﬁrm’s standalone value is increasing in productivity, and therefore the takeover surplus is
decreasing in productivity.
The bottom panels of Figure 3 illustrate the changes in the probabilities of turnover
and takeover due to the entry of an activist. Both panels show that the activist increases
the probabilities of replacing the CEO and of being acquired, and this change is increasing
in both project quality and acquirer quality, and decreasing in ﬁrm productivity. Hence,
activism has an eﬀect on both turnovers and takeovers in states where interventions can
unlock value, that is, when projects and takeover are promising.
2. Data
Our sample is constructed from several sources and covers the period 2001–2019. Table
1 presents descriptive statistics for our sample. Data about ﬁrms’ ﬁnancials come from the
annual CRSP/Compustat merged database. We drop ﬁrms incorporated outside of the US,
regulated utilities (SIC 4900-4999), ﬁnancial ﬁrms (SIC 6000-6999), and quasi-governmental
and nonproﬁt ﬁrms (SIC 9000-9999).
Data on M&A bids are from SDC Platinum. To merge this data with the CRSP-
Compustat merged data, we use the data from Michael Ewens (see Phillips and Zhdanov,
2013 and Ewens et al., 2024). 6 We drop bids to targets outside the US, made by investment
advisors (SIC 6282 and 6799), with the acquirer’s CUSIP equal to the target’s CUSIP, and
related to divestitures, spin-oﬀs, repurchases, IPOs, and acquisitions of divisions. We also
exclude bids which were neither completed nor withdrawn, with missing acquired percentage
of shares when the deals are ﬂagged as completed, with both acquired and sought percent-
age of shares missing or below 50.01%, and made after the announcement of a completed
deal. In cases of multiple bids for the same target within a twelve month period, we use
6The data were accessed at https://github.com/michaelewens/SDC-to-Compustat-Mapping .
14
only the initial bid. Our ﬁnal sample includes 2,194 M&A bids, or 4.2 percent of ﬁrm-year
observations.
Data on shareholder activism events are from Audit Analytics based on the initial ﬁling
of Schedule 13D with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We exclude amend-
ments, following Albuquerque et al. (2022). If for a given company on a given date there are
multiple investors ﬁling a Schedule 13D, we use the ﬁling with the largest percentage owned.
We drop ﬁlings from investors that own more than 50% of the shares of the company. If
there are multiple Schedule 13D ﬁlings for the same target during a twelve month period,
we use only the ﬁrst ﬁling as subsequent ﬁlings are likely cases of wolf pack activism (Brav
et al., 2022). To classify activist campaigns launched by hedge funds, we use data provided
by Alon Brav (see Brav et al., 2008). Data on CEO turnover and compensation are from
the Equilar database. We ﬁnd a turnover in the CEO position at a frequency of 8.5 percent
per year.
The model timeline, described in Section 1, implies an ordering, in time, of activist cam-
paigns, CEO turnovers, and takeovers. Most cases observed in the data follow the ordering
implied by the model. The primary exception is shareholder activism events occurring less
than a year after a takeover bid. We ignore these campaigns, as they are typically motivated
by risk arbitrage or an attempt to improve the terms of the announced deal (Jiang et al.,
2018). Similarly, we ignore CEO turnover events that occur less than one year after a bid,
as these are likely consequences of the acquisition itself (Kaplan and Minton, 2012). If an
activist campaign occurs after turnover within the same ﬁscal year, we treat the turnover
and campaign as two independent events.
We also make the following assumptions when classifying events. CEO turnovers and
takeover bids occurring within two years of an SEC 13D ﬁling are considered consequences
of activism, following Boyson et al. (2017). In the absence of activism, a CEO turnover and
a bid are deemed related if they occur within one year of each other. If there is no activism
in the two years prior and no CEO turnover in the year before the bid, the bid is considered
independent. Our ﬁnal sample includes 2,083 activist campaigns, or 4.0 percent of ﬁrm-year
observations.
We compute the bid premium of an oﬀer as the ratio of the the bid price obtained from
15
the M&A data and the CRSP daily stock price 25 days before a bid. If a turnover or an
activist campaign occurs during this 25 day pre-announcement period, we use the stock price
1 day after that event. We consider only bid premia between zero and one. The average bid
premium is 36.6 percent in our sample. We compute an activist’s return upon entry as the
cumulative abnormal return for the target ﬁrms from 30 days before the ﬁling of a Schedule
13D form to 1 day after using the market-adjusted model. The average return upon entry
is 4.4 percent.
3. Identiﬁcation
We estimate the model using the simulated method of moments (SMM), which chooses
parameter values that minimize the distance between key moments generated by the model
and their analogs in the data. Critical to identiﬁcation is selecting moments that are sensitive
to the parameters. In this section, we present the data moments used in the estimation and
explain how they help identify the model parameters. The Internet Appendix provides
further details about our estimation. Before describing the model’s estimation, we discuss
the parameters set in advance and additional assumptions. We select a curvature of the proﬁt
function (α) of 0.7 and discount rate of 5 percent (β = 0.952) in line with existing literature.
The rental rate of capital ( ck) is chosen to be 20 percent, which represents a 15 percent
depreciation rate plus a 5 percent cost of capital. We chooseµz by normalizing capital to one
at the unconditional mean of the exogenous portion of the productivity process. Bargaining
in merger negotiations assumes equal power between the target and acquirer, similar to
Dimopoulos and Sacchetto (2017) and Wang and Wu (2020). CEO compensation ( θd) is set
to 1.6% based on the average total compensation, as a fraction of operating income before
depreciation, of public ﬁrm CEOs in the Equilar data. The size of the activist stake (¯ ν) is
set to the statutory disclosure threshold of 5 percent, which corresponds to the ownership
threshold to ﬁle a Schedule 13D with the SEC.
We assume that the preference shocks attached to the manager’s decision to undertake
the project and the board’s decision to replace the CEO follow a Type I extreme value distri-
bution with location 0 and scale 1 following the standards in the computation and estimation
of dynamic discrete choice models (Arcidiacono and Ellickson, 2011). This assumption im-
16
plies that the parameters aﬀecting the manager and board value functions are identiﬁed up
to a constant (Train, 2009).
We estimate the remaining twelve parameters by choosing values such that ﬁfteen model-
simulated moments approximate their empirical counterpart as closely as possible. While
each parameter aﬀects all of the model simulated moments, some moments are more sensitive
to certain parameters.
The basic production parameters, ρz and σz, are directly related to the persistence and
volatility of ﬁrm performance. Unlike a more standard fully exogenous productivity process,
our model includes the manager’s choice of eﬀort and board’s turnover decision that partially
drive ﬁrm performance. Using an approach similar to Wang and Wu (2020), we use asym-
metry in persistence of productivity to identify the manager’s cost of eﬀort, ce. The degree
to which the manager increases eﬀort in response to poor performance drives a diﬀerence in
the mean reversion in performance. Speciﬁcally, we run the regression
log(si,t+1) =a +ρ+
s log(si,t)+ +ρ−
s log(si,t)− +ui,t+1 (11)
where log(si,t)+ and log(si,t)− are the positive and negative values of log sales after demeaning
by ﬁrm and year, in the model and data, and use the coeﬃcient estimates ρ+
s and ρ−
s as
moments.7 Matching the dynamics in log sales, rather than proﬁts, avoids problems with
observations that take negative values. We include the variance of the innovations, ui,t+1, to
help identify σz. The manager’s eﬀort choice is closely tied to the turnover decision, and we
therefore include the frequency of turnover as a moment. This moment also helps identify
cf(0), the cost of turnover when an activist is not present. To capture the sensitivity of
turnover to past performance, we include the correlation between turnover and proﬁt growth
over the previous year, after demeaning by ﬁrm and year. 8 In addition, these moments
will help identify the parameter governing stochastic project quality, λp, which is further
discussed below.
Next, we have parameters related to activism. The activist incurs private costs from
launching a campaign and these costs must be at least oﬀset by the returns the activist
7As is common in this literature, we demean by ﬁrm and year to remove heterogeneity in the data that
is outside of the model.
8Throughout, we measure growth rates as 2 xt−xt−1
|xt|+|xt−1| as in Davis and Haltiwanger (1992) to accommodate
negative values and keep growth rates bounded in [−2, 2].
17
expects to generate. The average shareholder returns around activist entry thus helps to
identify the activist’s cost of entering, ξ. The activist is also more likely to enter when
they have a positive private signal about the likelihood of takeover and/or project quality,
and we include the frequency of activist entry to help identify the parameters governing the
noise of the signals, σw and σp. In addition, we include the frequency of takeover during a
campaign to capture how informed the activist is about the likelihood of takeover. Similarly,
we include the frequency of turnover during a campaign to capture the role of activism in
incentivizing manager eﬀort and to help identify cf(¯ν), the cost of turnover conditional on
an activist being present.
We include moments on the dynamic relation between activism and ﬁrm operational
performance outside of takeover. If activists predictably enter when ﬁrm performance is
poor, this indicates an interventional role. We include the correlation between activist entry
and proﬁt growth over the previous year, after demeaning by ﬁrm and year, to capture this.
We also include a moment capturing future ﬁrm performance following an activist campaign
as this reﬂects the eﬀects of intervention. To ensure that we capture the longer term eﬀects
associated with activism (Bebchuk et al., 2015), we regress future 3-year proﬁt growth on an
indicator for an activist campaign, and use this coeﬃcient, controlling for ﬁrm and year ﬁxed
eﬀects. This moment also helps identify the distributional parameter for project quality, λp,
because project quality is partially observed by the activist.
Finally, we consider the parameters related to takeover. Takeovers occur when the surplus
from acquisition is positive and large enough to oﬀset the private board costs of takeover.
The surplus is driven largely by the post-takeover ﬁrm productivity, wt, which has mean
1/λw. The frequency of takeover is closely tied to this parameter. Conditional on takeover,
the bid premium reﬂects the private costs of the board, as the acquirer must oﬀer a higher bid
to oﬀset those costs. The mean bid premium, both unconditionally and during a campaign,
help to pin down these cost parameters, cm(0) and cm(¯ν), respectively.9 The surplus from
takeover depends on the ﬁrm’s performance, and we therefore include the correlation between
takeover and proﬁt growth over the previous year, after demeaning by ﬁrm and year, as an
9Analogous to the data, in the model the bid premium is calculated as the takeover price, Pt, relative to
the price just prior to the takeover announcement. The pre-announcement price incorporates information
on zt+1, νt, and sw,t.
18
addition moment to pin down the parameters related to takeover.
The validity of the identiﬁcation strategy relies on a suﬃcient connection between the
model parameters and moments. To illustrate these connections, in the Internet Appendix
we report the elasticities of moments with respect to the parameters and of parameters with
respect to the moments. These ﬁgures reiterate that most moments are linked to several
parameters. It also shows that each parameter is sensitive to one or more of the targeted
moments.
4. Empirical Estimation Results
In this section, we present the results of the SMM estimation, shown in Tables 2 and
3. The model does well to approximate the ﬁfteen moments used for identiﬁcation, as
seen in the targeted moments reported in Table 2. Similar to Wang and Wu (2020), we
ﬁnd asymmetric persistence in ﬁrm productivity, consistent with managers exerting more
eﬀort when performance is low. The model also matches the frequency of activist entry and
shareholder returns around the announcement of an activist campaign, as well as moments
related to CEO turnover and takeover. The model does not match precisely the two moments
related to the timing of turnover and ﬁrm takeover, shown in the ﬁnal two rows of Table 2.
However, in both cases, the model produces signs consistent with the data, and the economic
magnitudes are similar.
Table 3 presents the parameter estimates along with their standard errors, in parenthe-
ses, clustered at the ﬁrm-level. The model estimates indicate that activists have private
information about both the potential acquirer and project quality, but that these signals are
quite noisy. The estimates for λw,σw,λp, and σp imply a signal-to-noise ratio of 3.2 percent
for acquirer quality, and 14.6 percent for project quality. 10
The board’s private cost of CEO turnover is 2.1 times proﬁts. This estimate is in line
with previous estimates from models featuring CEO turnover, which typically ﬁnd that the
board places high private cost on replacing a CEO, and that this agency conﬂict leads to
suboptimally low separation rates (Taylor, 2010; Taylor, 2013; Wu, 2018; Frydman and
10The signal-to-noise ratio is calculated as the variance of the underlying process, 1 /λ2
x, divided by the
variance of the signal noise, σ2
x, for x∈{p,w}.
19
Papanikolaou, 2018). When an activist is present, we estimate a 22 percent reduction in
agency frictions in the turnover decision, suggesting that activists help to align incentives
between the board and shareholders. This corresponds to higher turnover rates during an
activist campaign, consistent with the data, as seen in Table 2.
The board’s private cost of the ﬁrm being acquired is estimated at 15.1 percent of ﬁrm
value. When an activist is present, this cost is reduced by 11 percent (1.6 percentage points),
a meaningful reduction in the agency frictions to takeover. For both turnover and takeover,
the empirical estimates indicate an economically signiﬁcant reduction in agency frictions
when the activist is present, indicating a valuable role of activist intervention.
Finally, the activist’s cost of entry parameter estimate corresponds to 3.0 percent of
the pre-campaign market price of the shares acquired. This cost estimate is in line with
the expected campaign costs estimated by Gantchev (2013), Johnson and Swem (2021), and
Albuquerque et al. (2022). With an average announcement return of 4.1 percent, this implies
an expected net return to the activist of 1.1 percent.
4.1. Model validation
The model does well to ﬁt the ﬁfteen moments targeted in the estimation. To further test
the ﬁt of the model, in this section we compare model and real-world outcomes in several
dimensions that are not targeted in the estimation.
One critical question of the model is whether the type of ﬁrm targeted by activists is
similar to that observed in the data. Panels A and B of Figure 4 explore this question by
plotting the kernel density estimates of one-year proﬁt growth and proﬁtability, respectively,
of ﬁrms that are targets of an activist campaign in both the real data (solid line) and
the model-simulated data (dashed line). Proﬁt growth measures short-term dynamics of
performance, and proﬁtability captures the level of ﬁrm performance at the time they are
targeted. Proﬁtability is measured as return on assets (ROA) in the actual data, and log
productivity in the model, and normalized in both cases to standard deviations around
the mean. We see in both Panels A and B that similar types of ﬁrms are the targets of
activist campaigns in the the data and model. Notably, in both cases, ﬁrm performance
is not a strong predictor of activist intervention, and ﬁrms with high and low proﬁtability
20
are potential targets. In the model, this is because strong signals about project quality or
acquirer quality can arrive for any ﬁrm, not just poorly performing ones.
We repeat this exercise to explore whether the model approximates the types of ﬁrms
that are targeted for takeover (Panels C and D). In the case of takeover, the performance
of ﬁrms that receive a takeover bid is slightly lower, on average, in the model than in the
data. This is likely because our model assumes a technology transfer from the acquirer to
the target, in the spirit of q-theory of mergers (Jovanovic and Rousseau, 2002), and does not
explicitly model complementarities between the target and acquirer assets, as in Rhodes-
Kropf and Robinson (2008) and Wang and Wu (2020). However, the model does quite well
in matching the distribution of the performance of takeover targets, suggesting that the
q-theory approach works well to approximate the takeover market in this setting.
Panels E and F of Figure 4 explore the performance of ﬁrms that experience CEO
turnover. As with takeovers, the model slightly understates the average performance of
ﬁrms that replace their CEO, but still does a good job to approximate the empirical distri-
bution. A signiﬁcant fraction of turnovers occur at ﬁrms with strong performance and the
model does well to capture this feature of the data.
Finally, while the model targets the mean bid premium, it does not target higher moments
of the distribution. The bid premium captures several features of the target/acquirer match,
the information environment, and the activist’s facilitation role. We compare the distribution
of the bid premium in Figure 5 by presenting histograms of real and model-simulated data.
We ﬁnd a similar pattern across the two, suggesting that the model does a reasonable job
approximating this dimension of the data.
5. Model Implications
With empirical estimates of the parameters in hand, we now explore implications and
counterfactuals from the model.
5.1. Role of activism in M&A and manager incentives
In the model, M&A outcomes and the manager’s eﬀort choices are aﬀected by activist
campaigns. On the M&A side, the presence of an activist helps to align incentives between
21
insiders and shareholders when a potential acquirer arrives. This helps to facilitate acqui-
sitions and increases the likelihood of a takeover, all else equal. On the incentive side, the
presence of an activist reduces managerial entrenchment in the board’s decision to replace a
CEO. This changes the manager’s incentive to exert eﬀort in the presence of an activist.
The model allows us to compare the marginal eﬀect of an activist campaign on M&A out-
comes and manager choices. Table 4 compares various outcomes from the model conditional
on an activist campaign to that same outcome in the counterfactual where the activist did
not launch a campaign, keeping all else equal. The comparison of these two quantities gives
the average change due to an activist campaign while holding the equilibrium ﬁxed. The
equilibrium eﬀects of activism are considered in the next section. All values are reported
as percentages. Column (1) considers all activist campaigns, and Column (2) includes only
those campaigns that result in a takeover.
Panel A Table 4 isolates the eﬀect of an activist campaign on outcomes related to M&A.
We see that an activist campaign causes a signiﬁcant increase in the likelihood of a takeover:
in cases where an activist is present and a takeover occurs, 92.8 percent of those takeover
would have been completed had an activist not been present, holding all else equal. In other
words, takeover is marginal to activist intervention in about 7 percent of successful deals.
In the model, the activist facilitates takeovers by reducing the board’s private cost of a
takeover, eﬀectively improving the incentive alignment between shareholders and insiders.
Although takeover facilitation increases the likelihood that a takeover will occur, on the
other side of the coin, it lowers the negotiating position and price demanded by the board in
negotiations. As a result, an activist campaign decreases the bid price and takeover premium.
Table 4 shows that in takeovers with an activist present, the bid premium is 13.7 percent (5.2
percentage points) lower than if the activist had not been present. All of the reduction in
bid premium is due to activist intervention because the pre-announcement share price used
to calculate the bid premium incorporates the activist’s signal about a potential acquirer.
The last three rows of Panel A quantify the net beneﬁt of an activist campaign at-
tributable to takeover outcomes. In cases when an activist is present and a takeover is
successful, the increased probability of a takeover adds 1.23 percent of value for sharehold-
ers on average, while the lower takeover premium reduces value by 0.78 percent. Together,
22
the average net beneﬁt to shareholders is 0.44 percent. However, this shareholder beneﬁt
is bimodal: for the 7.2 percent of deals that are marginal to activist intervention, average
shareholder beneﬁt is 15.7 percent. In the 92.8 percent of non-marginal deals, shareholders
lose on average 0.75 percent in value due to lower bid premia. When considering all ac-
tivist campaigns, not just those that result in a takeover, the average shareholder beneﬁt
attributable to M&A is only about 6 basis points. To summarize, on average, the value of
increased takeover likelihood is almost entirely oﬀset by the reduced bid premium. However,
the activist provides signiﬁcant value to shareholders in cases when takeover is marginal to
the campaign.
An activist campaign also increases the manager’s incentive to exert eﬀort by increasing
the sensitivity of turnover to eﬀort choice. Panel B of Table 4 reports the eﬀect of an
activist campaign attributable to changes in the manager’s eﬀort choice. In cases when
the activist launches a campaign, this results in a 30.8 percent increase in the probability
that the manager undertakes the project leading to a 1.17 percent increase in productivity.
This translates to a 35 basis point increase in shareholder value attributable to the eﬀort
incentives provided by an activist campaign. Comparing Panels A and B, the shareholder
beneﬁt due to increased eﬀort incentives is much larger in magnitude than that resulting
from changes in M&A outcomes.
The results in Table 4 represent the marginal eﬀects of an individual activist campaign.
To fully understand the eﬀects of activism as a market mechanism, we must consider the
equilibrium eﬀects of activism including that of the threat of activism. We turn to this next.
5.2. Activism: crowding-out or crowding-in M&A
In this section, we explore the equilibrium eﬀects of the presence of activists in the
economy on manager incentives, the M&A market, and shareholder value. In the model,
activists are equipped with two intervention technologies that aﬀect ﬁrm outcomes. First,
the activist reduces agency frictions in the decision to replace an under-performing CEO.
This intervention has similarities to takeover, which is another mechanism to remove the
manager. Second, the activist reduces agency frictions in merger negotiations. The model
allows us to quantify the eﬀect of each of these technologies individually on ﬁrm outcomes in
23
equilibrium, and to explore whether activism crowds out takeover activity or has a positive
spillover to the M&A market.
Table 5 reports outcomes under three counterfactual model experiments in Columns (1)–
(3), plus the full-model baseline in Column (4). Column (1) reports equilibrium outcomes
when activists have been excluded from the market, but keeping all other features of the
model unchanged. Column (2) reports the equilibrium in which activists may enter, but
activists have only the ability to incentivize eﬀort by lowering the frictions to turnover; they
have no eﬀect on the takeover decision. Comparing Columns (1) and (2), we see that takeover
activity declines 0.79 percent when activists are present in the economy. In other words,
the eﬀort incentives of activism crowds out a signiﬁcant volume of M&A activity. 11 This
occurs because the activist’s ability to incentivize manager eﬀort acts as a partial substitute
for takeover activity. Speciﬁcally, the incentives generated by activism increases eﬀort and
reduces the surplus from potential takeovers, reducing M&A volume.
The eﬀects on aggregate takeover surplus for targets, acquirers, and their sum, are also
reported. All three quantities decline by a similar percent, a direct result of lower M&A vol-
ume. Critically, the reduced acquirer surplus represents a negative externality of crowded-out
takeover activity: although improved eﬀort incentives—and the corresponding improvements
in productivity—are captured by target shareholders, the loss of acquirer surplus is not. From
a social value perspective, acquirer surplus must also be considered, and this crowding out
represents an unexplored potential downside of activism.
Column (2) also indicates that the incentive technology has a positive eﬀect on manager
eﬀort, increasing the productivity growth due to manager eﬀort and average productivity by
1.27 and 0.20 percent, respectively. This translates into a 0.33 percent increase in shareholder
value relative to a comparable ﬁrm in a world in which activists are excluded. On the other
side of the coin, managers face higher turnover and exert more eﬀort, and their utility is 1.8
percent lower.
Column (3) considers the role of activist takeover facilitation. This column reports the
equilibrium outcomes when the activist has only a facilitation technology but no ability
11Crowding out 0.79 percent of total M&A volume is especially notable given that activists are only present
in 3.9 percent of ﬁrm-year observations.
24
to incentivize eﬀort through reduced friction to turnover. Consistent with the ability to
facilitate takeovers, the introduction of activism increases the frequency of takeover by 0.64
percent. The probability of a takeover occurring when an activist is present also increases
to 14 percent. As discussed in Section 5.1, takeover facilitation is a double-edge sword for
shareholders: an activist campaign increases the likelihood a takeover occurs, but it lowers
the price conditional on a takeover. This is shown by the 0.63 percent decrease in the average
bid premium in Column (3), as well as a negligible increase in the aggregate target surplus of
0.02 percent. On the other hand, aggregate acquirer surplus is signiﬁcantly higher, by 0.49
percent, as a result of both the higher takeover volume and reduced bid premia, reﬂecting a
positive externality of activism.
Because the activist, in Column (3), cannot incentivize the manager through the threat
of turnover, the manager’s eﬀort choice and ﬁrm productivity are largely unchanged. Taken
in combination with the small increase in takeover surplus, target shareholders are roughly
indiﬀerent to the introduction of activists that can only serve as facilitators. However, from
a social perspective, aggregate surplus from M&A increases substantially from activists’
presence. Interestingly, the beneﬁts to activist intervention in the M&A market accrue to
acquirers, not targets.
Finally, Column (4) reports the baseline equilibrium in which activists have both eﬀort
incentive and takeover facilitation technologies. Comparing this to Column (1) gives the
equilibrium eﬀects of activism as a whole. We see that takeover volume is roughly unchanged
by the presence of activists, as the crowded out takeover activity from the activists eﬀort
incentives is roughly oﬀset by their facilitation role. We also see that aggregate target
surplus in M&A is reduced by the presence of activism, but that it increases for acquirers. In
addition, combined target and acquirer surplus declines slightly, by 0.16 percent in aggregate.
Thus, activism reduces total surplus generated by the market for corporate control.
For shareholders, the improved eﬀort incentives provided by activism provides signiﬁcant
value, increasing the share price by 0.33 percent compared to a comparable ﬁrm in a world
without activism. It is worth emphasizing that this eﬀect on shareholder value applies to
all potential targets of activism, not just those which are the active target of a campaign.
These estimates indicate a signiﬁcant eﬀect of the threat of activism on real ﬁrm outcomes.
25
Speciﬁcally, this eﬀect comes largely from improved incentives for management rather than
increased likelihood of takeover. The results suggest a valuable role for activism in the
economy, and that activists only capture a small percentage of the value that their presence
generates.
We also consider the eﬀects of the threat of takeovers on eﬀort incentives, productivity,
and shareholder value. Table 6 summarizes these eﬀects by considering counterfactual equi-
libria. The table reports the percent change in equilibrium outcomes relative to the baseline
by excluding activism (Column 1), takeovers (Column 2), and both activism and takeovers
(Column 3). Column (1) repeats the exercise from Column (4) of Table 5, and summa-
rizes the role of activism in the economy: removing activists marginally increases takeovers,
reduces turnover rates and productivity, and lowers shareholder value.
Column (2) removes the threat of takeovers, which results in activism playing a diﬀerent
role in the economy: campaigns are launched primarily to ensure high-quality projects are
undertaken, replacing the CEO if necessary. This is seen with the 69 percent increase in
the turnover rate when the activist is present relative to the baseline. Productivity and
eﬀort are higher, yet, shareholders are signiﬁcantly worse oﬀ: shareholder value declines by
26.6 percent, largely due to the loss of surplus generated by takeovers. This reﬂects the
high aggregate value of reallocation in the M&A market. To summarize, without an M&A
market, activists play a much more active role in disciplining managers.
Without the threat of either activists or takeovers, shown in Column (3), shareholders
are signiﬁcantly worse oﬀ, similar to Column (2). Interestingly, productivity and eﬀort are
higher when both takeover and activists are excluded from the market. This is partially
explained by higher turnover rates with the board providing greater incentives without ex-
ternal governance mechanisms in place. In addition, managers internalize more of the value
of eﬀort because they are not subject to takeover threats, making the manager willing to
exert more eﬀort. Despite the higher eﬀort, managers beneﬁt from greater job security,
and have 4.2 percent higher utility when these market-based disciplinary mechanisms are
excluded.
26
5.3. Selection versus treatment in activist announcement returns
In the previous section, we saw that activists aﬀect real outcomes by facilitating takeovers
and improving manager incentives, i.e. the treatment, or intervention, eﬀects of activism.
Of course, intervention can only occur if the activist decides to launch a campaign, and this
decision depends on their private information signals. In this section, we evaluate the role
of information, or selection, in the activist’s decision to enter and in the returns to activism.
In the model, activists receive two signals prior to their entry decision, one about the
ﬁrm’s project quality and the other about the quality of a potential acquirer. These signals
represent the activist’s information advantage relative to the market, and an activist receives
this information prior to making an entry decision. 12 After this entry decision is made, the
activist’s position and the private information are revealed to the market and prices adjust.
The shareholder return around announcement summarizes the change in expectations about
takeover, the manager’s and board’s actions, and the activist’s eﬀect on ﬁrm outcomes.
The model allows us to decompose the shareholder announcement return into selection and
treatment channels.
Table 7 reports components of the shareholder return around activist entry in the esti-
mated model. The ﬁrst row reveals that 91 percent of the announcement return is due to the
activist trading on superior information about the ﬁrm’s projects and future takeover oppor-
tunities. This is constructed as the counterfactual shareholder return around announcement
that would occur if the activist’s private information was revealed to the market but the
market believes that an activist will not enter, i.e., selection without treatment. The se-
lection eﬀect can be further decomposed into that attributable to each of the two signals,
which reveals that information about potential takeovers drives 76 percent of the return.
This result is consistent with the empirical literature that shows that activist returns are
strongly correlated with campaigns related to takeover.
Although the selection eﬀect is large, and most of the announcement returns are due
to information about the potential acquirer, it is worth reiterating that the activist’s signal
12An information advantage for the activist is not assumed in the model but rather accommodated. For
example, the parameters for the signal noise, σw and σp, can be arbitrarily large. Our parameter estimates
indicate noisy, but economically relevant, signals.
27
about potential takeovers is quite weak—the signal-to-noise ratio is only 3.0 percent. This
can be seen in that the probability of a takeover conditional on an activist entering is only
12 percent. However, the returns to successfully picking a takeover target are high, with an
average bid premium of 37 percent, giving high expected value to the noisy signal.
On the treatment side, most of the returns around activist entry are due to improved
eﬀort incentives rather than takeover facilitation. This is consistent with our earlier results
which showed that the net beneﬁt to target shareholder of takeover facilitation is small, and
that most of the gains from activist intervention come from improved incentives to exert
eﬀort.
Our ﬁndings suggest that activists generate signiﬁcant returns from superior information
about takeover opportunities, consistent with Greenwood and Schor (2009). However, similar
to Table 4, it is important to reiterate that the marginal eﬀect of activist intervention
reported in Table 7 captures only changes inexpectations around activist entry; value coming
from future anticipated activist intervention is already incorporated in the share price prior
to the activist entry announcement. This marginal eﬀect on the share price therefore does
not capture the full value of activists in the economy, which requires an equilibrium analysis.
As we saw in Table 5, the threat of activism adds signiﬁcant value to target shareholders.
We turn to the equilibrium eﬀects of activist private information next.
5.4. The role of activist private information
Table 8 explores the eﬀects of activist private information on the entry decision, the M&A
market, and shareholder value. The table reports counterfactual equilibrium outcomes as a
percent change relative to the baseline by shutting down the activists’ private signal about
the potential acquirer (Column 1), the signal about project quality (Column 2), and both
signals (Column 3).
Without superior information regarding a potential takeover, shown in Column (1), the
frequency of activist entry drops by an order of magnitude—by 88 percent relative to the
baseline—demonstrating the value of the signal related to M&A in the decision to launch a
campaign. Instead, the activist entry decision is based solely on information about project
quality, the consequences of which are seen by a nearly two-fold increase in turnover rates
28
conditional on activism. This reﬂects activist entering to ensure that a valuable project is
undertaken, replacing the CEO if necessary. However, average productivity is lower ( −0.13
percent) than in the baseline due to far fewer activist campaigns. This lower productivity
is associated with a decline in shareholder value of 0.17 percent. On the M&A side, despite
fewer activist campaigns, takeover volume actually increases, by 0.14 percent, reﬂecting
slightly lower average productivity and therefore higher takeover surplus. As activist takeover
facilitation is rarely used—activists are present in only 3.6 percent of takeovers, compared
to 12.5 percent in the baseline—bid premia, target surplus, and total surplus of successful
deals are higher than in the baseline; in contrast, acquirers have lower aggregate surplus due
to higher bid premia.
With no private information about project quality, shown in Column (2), the activist
again reduces entry, but by only about one quarter. M&A volume is roughly unchanged
(−0.02 percent) reﬂecting the balance of the crowding out and takeover facilitation eﬀects
discussed in Section 5.2. Unable to launch campaigns in advance of high-quality projects,
manager eﬀort and productivity drops, and shareholder value drops by 0.23 percent.
Finally, Column (3) turns oﬀ all private information for the activist. In this case, the
activist never ﬁnds it optimal to enter as it is unable to trade on private information, and the
returns to its treatment eﬀects are not suﬃciently large to overcome the cost of launching
a campaign. M&A volume is roughly unchanged (0.05 percent increase), and eﬀort and
productivity decline relative to the baseline. Without activists present in the economy,
shareholders lose 0.32 percent of value, highlighting the positive value of activism estimated
in the model.
These results demonstrate that the activist’s access to private information can be beneﬁ-
cial to shareholders. Because information is important for the activist’s entry decision, and
the treatment eﬀects only occur if the activist enters, information complements treatment.
Indeed, if the activist does not have superior information, they do not enter, eliminating any
beneﬁcial treatment eﬀects. This is analogous to the classic free-rider problem in corporate
takeovers (Grossman and Hart, 1980), as the costs of the campaign are borne solely by the
activist, but the beneﬁts are shared by all shareholders, leading to ineﬃciently low activism.
An information advantage for the activist improves the outcomes of target shareholders by
29
helping to overcome this free-rider problem.
5.5. Policy experiment: the cost of activism
The regulatory and legal environment surrounding shareholder activism, proxy contests,
and anti-activist tactics play a signiﬁcant role in an activist’s decision to launch a campaign.
Examples include trade block disclosure requirements (Bebchuk et al., 2013; Back et al.,
2018), universal proxy regulations (Hirst, 2018), and anti-activist poison pills (Eldar et al.,
2023). These factors have the potential to change the cost of activism, and our model allows
us to evaluate the eﬀect of such changes.
Table 9 presents policy experiments in which the cost of activist entry is changed holding
other parameters ﬁxed. Columns (1) and (2) report the percent change, relative to baseline,
in the counterfactual equilibrium outcomes for a 20 percent decrease or increase, respectively,
in the activist’s cost of entry, ξ.
With higher costs of entry, activists enter less frequently, resulting in a reduction in
shareholder value as intervention occurs with less frequency. As with the earlier results, this
loss in shareholder value is primarily due to reduced incentives for the manager to exert
eﬀort, resulting in lower productivity.
When costs are higher, activists require a higher signal in order to launch a campaign.
This can be seen with a signiﬁcant (11 percent) increase in the frequency of takeover when an
activist is present. Similarly, through the project quality signal, turnover rates conditional
on activism increase despite a decrease in overall turnover rates. Overall, with higher costs of
entering, activism is more strongly correlated with project and acquirer quality, meaning the
selection eﬀect of activist entry is greater. This is seen with higher activist announcement
returns and, in particular, the return component due to information.
6. Hedge funds, activist evolution, and golden parachutes
In this section, we consider the role of hedge fund activism, sample period, and golden
parachutes on our estimation results.
30
6.1. Hedge fund activism
Several studies have argued that hedge fund activists have superior results in terms
of improving real and ﬁnancial outcomes of the ﬁrms they target (Brav et al., 2010). In
this section, we explore whether hedge funds diﬀer in the eﬃcacy of their interventions or
the private information they receive. We use data provided by Alon Brav on hedge fund
activists’ campaigns during the period 2001–2014 (Brav et al., 2008). Our sample includes
1,374 campaigns with hedge funds participation corresponding to 87% of the total number
of campaigns during that period. We re-estimate the model using this subsample of hedge
fund activist campaigns, excluding non-hedge fund campaigns. We also re-estimate the
model using data on all activist events during the same sample period, 2001–2014, in order
to isolate the eﬀect of hedge fund activism. The parameter estimates are reported in Columns
(1) and (2) of Table 10.
Comparing the estimates from the hedge fund only sample to those from the comparable
all activist sample, we ﬁnd evidence that hedge fund activists are more eﬀective at reducing
agency frictions in the turnover and takeover decisions. The reduction in agency frictions
related to turnovers and takeovers are 38.8 and 8.3 percent, respectively, comparing favorably
to the 36.5 and 7.5 percent reductions in the baseline estimation. While the diﬀerence is
modest, it is worth noting that the number of non-hedge fund activist campaigns is also
small. On the information side, hedge funds have a signal-to-noise ratio on acquirer quality
of 2.6 percent, somewhat higher than the 2.4 percent found in the all activist sample. On
the project quality side, hedge fund activists have a less noisy signal than in the all activist
sample, but in both cases the signal value is economically insigniﬁcant. In summary, hedge
funds appear to be more eﬀective at intervention, and we ﬁnd evidence that they are better
informed about takeover opportunities, but only to a modest degree.
6.2. The eﬃcacy of activism over time
Alongside an increase in hedge fund activism over time, the tactics, eﬃcacy, and repu-
tation of activists may have changed over our sample period (Krishnan et al., 2016; Denes
et al., 2017; Johnson and Swem, 2021). To investigate this possibility, we divide our sample
in half, into an early (2001–2009) and late period (2010–2019), and re-estimate the model pa-
31
rameters for each subsample. The parameter estimates are presented in Table 10 in Columns
(3) and (4).
We ﬁnd that the eﬃcacy of intervention increases in the later period, but only in terms
of takeover facilitation. Speciﬁcally, the estimated agency frictions of takeover are reduced
by 15.6 percent when an activist is present in the late period, whereas there is no estimated
reduction in the early period. In terms of reducing the agency frictions to CEO turnover, we
ﬁnd that the eﬃcacy of intervention has declined somewhat, from 35.3 reduction in agency
frictions in the early period to 28.9 percent in the late period.
On the information side, we ﬁnd evidence of improved information content in the private
signals that activists have prior to launching a campaign. On the takeover side, we ﬁnd signal-
to-noise increases from 3.2 to 5.4 percent over time. This is consistent with takeovers being
an increasingly important source of return for activists, and coincides with an improvement
in activists’ role as a facilitator of takeovers discussed above. On the project side, the signal-
to-noise ratio is economically insigniﬁcant in the early period, and increases to 13.1 percent
in the late period. Overall, activists appear to be better informed in the late period, and
activists role as facilitators of takeover appears to be strengthening over time.
6.3. Golden parachutes and severance pay
We extend the model to consider the eﬀect of providing the manager with compensation
in the case of takeover or turnover, which we refer to as severance pay. Some form of
severance pay is common practice in executive compensation contracts (Hartzell et al., 2004;
Yermack, 2006; Jenter and Lewellen, 2015). Using the approach of Rau and Xu (2013), we
estimate the average payout to CEOs in the case of separation as 2.3 percent of proﬁts. 13
We assume that severance compensation is the same for both turnover and takeover.
In untabulated results, we ﬁnd that the inclusion of severance pay has only negligible
eﬀects on the model estimation. To understand this, consider that the manager’s utility is
composed of two components: the expected present value of future normal compensation,
and the expected present value of severance pay. The manager chooses eﬀort to maximize the
sum of these values. For the ﬁrst term, the marginal value of eﬀort on normal compensation
13This is constructed as three times salary and bonus.
32
is not aﬀected by severance pay. For the second term, the marginal value of eﬀort primarily
operates through a discounting channel: longer expected tenure lowers the present value of
severance pay. Thus, higher severance pay reduces the manager’s incentive to exert eﬀort.
However, the quantitative eﬀect is small because neither discount rates nor severance pay
are high. Therefore, severance pay of a size estimated in the data has only a small eﬀect on
the manager’s eﬀort decision; severance pay or discount rates would need to be much larger
to have a signiﬁcant eﬀect on the manager’s eﬀort choice.
7. Conclusion
Activists and takeovers can be complementary or can serve as substitutable disciplinary
mechanisms for management and the board. On the one hand, activist investors can fa-
cilitate takeovers with potential acquirers. On the other, the presence of activists and the
threat of being acquired can incentivize managers to behave well, lowering the surplus to
takeover. The joint eﬀect of these two forces on the M&A activity and shareholder value is
ex-ante ambiguous. To quantify these forces, we develop and estimate a model of shareholder
activism and M&A featuring an activist that can buy a stake in a ﬁrm and incentivize the
manager to exert eﬀort through the threat of turnover and facilitate takeovers by reducing
board entrenchment.
We ﬁnd that activism crowds out takeover activity as a competing disciplining mecha-
nism: the presence of activists in the economy cause managers to exert more eﬀort, reducing
the surplus from and likelihood of takeover. This crowding out has the externality of reducing
the surplus of potential acquirers. At the same time, we ﬁnd that activists signiﬁcantly re-
duce agency frictions in the decision to be acquired. This channel increases takeover volume,
and increases the surplus of potential acquirers. Taken together, the presence of activism has
negligible net eﬀect on M&A volume in equilibrium, and slightly reduces total surplus from
M&A. We also ﬁnd that activists generate value for target shareholders primarily through
improved eﬀort incentives rather than takeover facilitation.
We ﬁnd that the threat of activism provides signiﬁcant positive value to shareholders, in
equilibrium, even when they are not the target of a campaign. This value, along with the
surplus internalized by potential acquirers, cannot be captured by activists and contributes to
33
a free-rider problem. It also suggests that research measuring the social beneﬁts of activism
must look beyond just shareholder returns of active targets.
Our model estimates also indicate that much of the return generated around the an-
nouncement of an activist campaign is due to superior information of activists rather than
to their ability to inﬂuence corporate outcomes. However, without private information,
activists have a signiﬁcantly reduced presence in the economy, reducing shareholder value
coming from the threat of intervention. Therefore, private information beneﬁts shareholders
in that it helps to overcome the free-rider problem in the activist’s decision to launch a
campaign.
34
Activist
makes
entry 
decision 
Manager 
makes 
effort 
choice
Firm 
generates 
profits
Acquirer 
negotiates with 
board; takeover 
decision made Takeover; 
firm exits
Activist 
exits
Board 
makes 
turnover 
decision
No takeover; 
firm continues
Public info 𝑧𝑡
𝑠𝑤,𝑡 𝑠𝑝,𝑡 
Activist info
𝑝𝑡 
𝜈𝑡 𝑠𝑤,𝑡 
𝑒𝑡 𝑓𝑡
𝑧𝑡+1
𝑤𝑡
Acquirer/board info
𝑎𝑡
𝑃𝑡
Fig. 1. Timeline of the model. This ﬁgure illustrates the timeline of the model actions and
information environment. At the start of each period, the ﬁrm generates proﬁts. A potential
activist investor receives private signals about a project quality ( sp,t) and acquirer quality ( sw,t),
and it decides whether to launch a campaign. The investor’s decision and information become
common knowledge. Then, the manager decides whether to undertake the project ( et) based on
the true project quality (pt). Based on the manager’s decision, the board decides whether to replace
the manager (ft). After the turnover phase, next period ﬁrm productivity ( zt+1) is realized. The
potential acquirer and board learn the quality of the takeover opportunity ( wt), negotiate price
(Pt), and a takeover decision is made (at). The activist exits. If the takeover occurs, the ﬁrm exits
the economy; otherwise, the ﬁrm continues.
35
Fig. 2. Activist’s entry decision. This ﬁgure illustrates the probability that an activist launches
a campaign as a function of the signals (left panel), the acquirer signal and ﬁrm productivity (middle
panel), and the project signal and ﬁrm productivity (right panel). Each panel is a heat map with
lighter colors indicating a higher probability of an activist campaign.
36
Fig. 3. Policy functions. The top two panels of the ﬁgure illustrate the probability of a turnover
as a function of the project quality and ﬁrm productivity (left panel), and the probability of a
takeover as a function of acquirer quality and ﬁrm productivity (right panel). The bottom two
panels illustrate the changes in these probabilities following the entry of an activist. Each panel is
a heat map with lighter colors indicating a larger probability of an event (top panels) or a larger
increase in the probability of an event (bottom panels).
37
Panel A: Activist entry Panel B: Activist entry
00.20.40.60.81Activism Density-2-1012Proﬁt GrowthDataModel
00.10.20.30.4Activism Density-3-2-10123ProﬁtabilityDataModel
Panel C: Takeover Panel D: Takeover
00.20.40.60.81Takeover Bid Density-2-1012Proﬁt GrowthDataModel
00.10.20.30.4Takeover Bid Density-3-2-10123ProﬁtabilityDataModel
Panel E: Turnover Panel F: Turnover
00.20.40.60.81Turnover Density-2-1012Proﬁt GrowthDataModel
00.10.20.30.4Turnover Density-3-2-10123ProﬁtabilityDataModel
Fig. 4. Non-targeted moments: Activist entry, takeover, and turnover. The ﬁgure
presents the kernel density estimates of proﬁt growth and proﬁtability for ﬁrms that are targeted
by activists (Panels A and B), for ﬁrms that are targeted for takeover (Panels C and D), and for
ﬁrms that have CEO turnover (Panels E and F). Kernel density estimates using real data and
model-simulated data are shown with solid and dashed lines, respectively. One-year proﬁt growth
is measured using the approach of Davis and Haltiwanger (1992) trimmed to the range ( −2, 2).
Proﬁtability is measured as return on assets (ROA) in the data, and as log productivity in the
model. In both the real and simulated data, proﬁtability is measured as within-ﬁrm standard
deviations from the mean, and trimmed at ±3 standard deviations. In the ROA data, year eﬀects
are also removed.
00.20.40.6Fraction of Bids0-0.250.25-0.500.50-0.750.75-1Bid PremiumDataModel
Fig. 5. Bid premium distribution. The ﬁgure presents histograms of the bid premium in the
actual and simulated data.
39
Table 1: Descriptive statistics
This table reports descriptive statistics for the sample covering 2001–2019. Assets and sales are
normalized in 2019 US dollars. Cumulative abnormal returns (CAR) are computed using the
market-adjusted model from 30 days before the ﬁling of a 13D form to 1 day after. Bid premia
are computed using the stock price 25 days prior to the merger announcement. For each variable,
we report the mean, the standard deviation, the 10th, 25th, 50th, 75th and 90th percentiles. The
sample has 52,666 observations.
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
Mean Std P10 P25 P50 P75 P90
Ln(Assets) 6 .368 1 .994 3 .788 4 .956 6 .331 7 .719 8 .951
Ln(Sales) 6 .119 2 .323 3 .293 4 .769 6 .287 7 .650 8 .849
Activist’s entry, [0, 1] 0 .040 0 .195 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000
CAR, activist entry 0 .044 0 .278 −0.220 −0.089 0 .026 0 .145 0 .310
CEO turnover, [0, 1] 0 .085 0 .279 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000
CEO turnover with activist, [0, 1] 0 .007 0 .085 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000
Takeover bid, [0, 1] 0 .042 0 .200 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000
Takeover bid with activist, [0, 1] 0 .005 0 .069 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000
Bid premium 0 .366 0 .217 0 .110 0 .205 0 .330 0 .486 0 .670
Bid premium with activist 0 .332 0 .228 0 .083 0 .151 0 .290 0 .456 0 .659
40
Table 2: Targeted moments
The table presents the moments from the data, the model-simulated moments from the SMM
estimation of the model, and t-statistics for the test of equality of the data and model-simulated
moments. The persistence of good and bad performance are the regression coeﬃcients from Eq.
(11). The coeﬃcient of future performance on activism is from a regression of future 3-year proﬁt
growth on an indicator for an activist campaign. The ﬁnal three rows are the correlations of
activist entry, turnover, and takeover, respectively, with proﬁt growth over the previous year. All
the coeﬃcients and correlations are obtained after demeanining by ﬁrm and year.
Description Model Data t-stat
Persistence of good performance 0 .727 0 .717 −0.43
Persistence of bad performance 0 .643 0 .637 −0.33
Variance of residuals 0 .135 0 .140 0 .58
Frequency of activist entry 0 .039 0 .040 0 .20
Mean return on activist entry 0 .041 0 .044 0 .63
Coeﬃcient of future performance on activism 0 .100 0 .080 −0.66
Frequency of takeover 0 .042 0 .042 −0.45
Frequency of takeover| activist 0 .127 0 .120 −0.89
Mean bid premium 0 .367 0 .366 −0.21
Mean bid premium| activist 0 .331 0 .331 −0.40
Frequency of turnover 0 .085 0 .085 −0.01
Frequency of turnover| activist 0 .190 0 .183 −0.73
Correlation of activism and lagged performance −0.014 −0.017 −0.48
Correlation of turnover and lagged performance −0.053 −0.030 4 .12
Correlation of takeover and lagged performance −0.033 −0.018 2 .50
41
Table 3: Parameter estimates
This table presents parameters estimates from the SMM estimation of the model, with standard
errors clustered at the ﬁrm level in parentheses.
Symbol Description Value
ρz Productivity persistence 0.860
(0.008)
σz Productivity volatility 0.182
(0.010)
λw Acquirer quality distribution rate 2.285
(0.056)
σw Acquirer quality signal noise 2.438
(0.264)
λp Project quality distribution rate 11.909
(1.171)
σp Project quality signal noise 0.220
(0.043)
ce Manager’s cost of eﬀort 0.740
(0.271)
cf(0) Cost of turnover without activist 2.072
(0.331)
cf(¯ν) Cost of turnover with activist 1.618
(0.296)
cm(0) Cost of takeover without activist 0.151
(0.011)
cm(¯ν) Cost of takeover with activist 0.135
(0.047)
ξ Activist’s entry cost 0.030
(0.004)
42
Table 4: Marginal eﬀects of an activist campaign
This table reports the marginal eﬀects of activist campaigns on merger and acquisition (M&A)
outcomes and managerial eﬀort within the baseline model. Panel A presents the marginal eﬀect of
an activist campaign isolated to its eﬀect on M&A, showing changes in the probability of takeover,
bid premia, and shareholder value. Panel B presents the marginal eﬀect of an activist campaign
isolated to its eﬀect on eﬀort, including changes in managerial eﬀort, productivity, and shareholder
value. All values are reported as percentages and are conditional on either an activist campaign or
an activist campaign combined with a successful takeover.
Panel A: Activist eﬀect on M&A
Conditional on
All values expressed as percentages Activist Activist & takeover
Probability of takeover
Baseline 12 .46 100 .00
No activist (counterfactual) 11 .57 92 .84
Change due to activist campaign 7 .70 7 .71
Bid premium of completed deals
Baseline 32 .90 32 .90
No activist (counterfactual) 38 .12 38 .12
Change due to activist campaign −13.69 −13.69
Shareholder value 0 .06 0 .44
Due to takeover probability increase 0 .15 1 .23
Due to decline in bid premium −0.10 −0.78
Panel B: Activist eﬀect on eﬀort
Conditional on
All values expressed as percentages Activist Activist & takeover
Change due to activist campaign
Eﬀort 30 .76 28 .02
Productivity 1 .17 0 .88
Shareholder value 0 .35 0 .25
43
Table 5: Eﬀort incentives and takeover facilitation
This table examines the equilibrium implications of activist intervention by isolating two channels—
managerial eﬀort incentives and takeover facilitation. Columns (1) reports outcomes when activists
are excluded. Columns (2)–(3) report outcomes under counterfactual scenarios where only one
channel is active, while Column (4) reports the baseline equilibrium. All values are expressed as
percentages.
(1) (2) (3) (4)
Substitutes: Complements:
Only Only
No eﬀort takeover
All values expressed as percentages activism incentives facilitation Baseline
Takeover
Frequency of takeover 4 .19 4 .16 4 .22 4 .19
Change from no activism −0.79 0 .64 −0.05
Frequency of takeover| activist – 11 .57 14 .00 12 .46
Target surplus
Change from no activism −0.38 0 .02 −0.36
Acquirer surplus
Change from no activism −0.37 0 .49 0 .22
Total (target + acquirer) surplus
Change from no activism −0.37 0 .18 −0.16
Bid premium 36 .92 36 .98 36 .69 36 .70
Change from no activism 0 .18 −0.63 −0.60
Turnover and eﬀort
Frequency of turnover 8 .14 8 .49 8 .15 8 .50
Change from no activism 4 .35 0 .10 4 .50
Frequency of turnover| activist – 19 .00 12 .07 19 .00
Productivity due to eﬀort
Change from no activism 1 .27 0 .03 1 .31
Productivity
Change from no activism 0 .20 −0.01 0 .18
Activism and value
Frequency of activist entry 0 .00 3 .88 2 .93 3 .94
Target shareholder value
Change from no activism 0 .33 0 .00 0 .33
Manager utility
Change from no activism −1.80 −0.11 −1.92
44
Table 6: The threat of activism and takeover
This table presents results from counterfactual experiments quantifying the impact of the threat
of activism and takeovers on activist entry decisions, M&A outcomes, turnover, and shareholder
value. The table reports the percent change in equilibrium outcomes relative to the baseline for
counterfactuals excluding activism (Column 1), takeovers (Column 2), and both activism and
takeovers (Column 3).
(1) (2) (3)
No No No activism
Percent change from baseline activism takeovers & no takeovers
Takeover
Frequency of takeover 0 .05 −100.00 −100.00
Frequency of takeover| activist – −100.00 –
Target surplus 0 .36 −100.00 −100.00
Acquirer surplus −0.22 −100.00 −100.00
Total (target + acquirer) surplus 0 .16 −100.00 −100.00
Bid premium 0 .60 – –
Turnover and eﬀort
Frequency of turnover −4.30 11 .49 4 .64
Frequency of turnover| activist – 69 .23 –
Productivity due to eﬀort −1.29 2 .89 1 .12
Productivity −0.18 4 .72 4 .41
Activism and value
Frequency of activist entry −100.00 −13.72 −100.00
Target shareholder value −0.32 −26.64 −27.31
Manager utility 1 .96 0 .88 4 .17
45
Table 7: Activist entry announcement return decomposition
This table decomposes shareholder announcement returns around activist entry into selection and
treatment components. The selection component reﬂects returns from the activist’s private infor-
mation about project quality and acquirer quality, while the treatment component reﬂects returns
from activist-induced changes in eﬀort incentives and takeover facilitation. Reported values include
both absolute percent returns and the share of total announcement returns attributable to each
channel.
(1) (2)
Percent Return Percent of Total Return
Selection 3 .69 90 .8
Learn about project quality (sp) 0 .59 14 .4
Learn about acquirer quality (sw) 3 .10 76 .3
Treatment 0 .38 9 .3
Eﬀort incentives (cf(0) vs cf(¯ν)) 0 .36 8 .8
Takeover facilitation (cm(0) vs cm(¯ν)) 0 .02 0 .5
Total activist announcement return 4 .07 100 .0
46
Table 8: The role of activist private information
This table reports the results of counterfactual experiments assessing the role of activist private
information on entry decisions, M&A outcomes, turnover, and shareholder value. The baseline
model is compared with counterfactual equilibria in which activists lack private information about
potential acquirers (Column 1), project quality (Column 2), or any superior information (Column
3). Values are reported as the percent change from the baseline.
(1) (2) (3)
No info on No info on No superior
acquirers project quality info
Percent change from baseline (sw,t unobserved) ( sp,t unobserved)
Takeover
Frequency of takeover 0 .14 −0.02 0 .05
Frequency of takeover| activist −71.08 16 .15 –
Target surplus 0 .41 −0.01 0 .36
Acquirer surplus −0.29 0 .11 −0.22
Total (target + acquirer) surplus 0 .17 0 .03 0 .16
Bid premium 0 .47 0 .19 0 .60
Turnover and eﬀort
Frequency of turnover −3.21 −1.99 −4.30
Frequency of turnover| activist 93 .74 −29.36 –
Productivity due to eﬀort −0.92 −0.65 −1.29
Productivity −0.13 −0.09 −0.18
Activism and value
Frequency of activist entry −88.26 −23.48 −100.00
Target shareholder value −0.17 −0.23 −0.32
Manager utility 1 .44 0 .92 1 .96
Activist announcement return 3 .58 4 .11 –
due to information 2 .72 3 .85 –
due to treatment 0 .87 0 .26 –
47
Table 9: Costs of activism policy experiment
This table reports the results of counterfactual experiments assessing the role of the activist’s cost of
launching a campaign on entry decisions, M&A outcomes, turnover, and shareholder value. Column
(1) and (2) report the percent change in equilibrium quantities relative to the baseline for ±20%
change in the activist cost parameter, ξ.
(1) (2)
Percent change from baseline Lower cost Higher cost
Takeover
Frequency of takeover 0 .07 0 .02
Frequency of takeover| activist −11.93 11 .10
Target surplus −0.14 0 .12
Acquirer surplus 0 .03 −0.06
Total (target + acquirer) surplus −0.08 0 .06
Bid premium −0.39 0 .23
Turnover and eﬀort
Frequency of turnover 3 .20 −1.79
Frequency of turnover| activist 0 .13 0 .79
Productivity due to eﬀort 0 .99 −0.51
Productivity 0 .13 −0.08
Activism and value
Frequency of activist entry 72 .18 −41.06
Target shareholder value 0 .28 −0.15
Manager utility −1.44 0 .82
Activist announcement return −14.65 14 .26
due to information −16.46 16 .07
due to treatment 3 .11 −3.48
48
Table 10: Hedge fund and early/late sample parameter estimates
This table presents parameters estimates from the SMM estimation of the model on four subsamples,
with standard errors clustered at the ﬁrm level in parentheses. The hedge fund only sample (Column
1) includes only activist campaigns that include a hedge fund activist during the period 2001–2014.
For comparison, Column (2) uses the full sample of activist campaigns during the same time period,
2001–2014. The early sample is 2001–2009, and the late sample is 2010–2019, shown in Columns
(3) and (4); these include all activist campaigns.
(1) (2) (3) (4)
Hedge fund All Early sample Late sample
activists activists 2001–2009 2010–2019
ρz Productivity persistence 0.819 0.816 0.669 0.740
(0.011) (0.014) (0.016) (0.020)
σz Productivity volatility 0.161 0.168 0.178 0.159
(0.009) (0.005) (0.010) (0.008)
λw Acquirer quality distribution rate 2.575 2.550 2.599 2.351
(0.137) (0.114) (0.114) (0.082)
σw Acquirer signal noise 2.396 2.555 2.163 1.829
(0.580) (0.205) (0.229) (0.515)
λp Project quality distribution rate 12.199 12.383 17.872 11.815
(0.667) (1.232) (2.673) (0.851)
σp Project quality signal noise 2.031 5.986 2.935 0.234
(0.001) (0.000) (0.000) (0.071)
ce Manager’s cost of eﬀort 2.137 2.412 1.782 1.356
(0.341) (0.793) (0.885) (0.578)
cf(0) Cost of turnover without activist 2.570 2.552 2.246 2.052
(0.316) (0.253) (0.213) (0.244)
cf(¯ν) Cost of turnover with activist 1.572 1.621 1.453 1.458
(0.359) (0.292) (0.178) (0.489)
cm(0) Cost of takeover without activist 0.144 0.146 0.184 0.186
(0.018) (0.028) (0.024) (0.056)
cm(¯ν) Cost of takeover with activist 0.132 0.135 0.184 0.157
(0.024) (0.038) (0.021) (0.047)
ξ Activist’s entry cost 0.025 0.023 0.020 0.028
(0.001) (0.003) (0.005) (0.007)
49
References
Admati, A. R., Pﬂeiderer, P., Zechner, J., 1994. Large Shareholder Activism, Risk Sharing,
and Financial Market Equilibrium. Journal of Political Economy 102, 1097–1130.
Albuquerque, R., Fos, V., Schroth, E., 2022. Value Creation in Shareholder Activism. Journal
of Financial Economics 145, 153–178.
Albuquerque, R., Schroth, E., 2010. Quantifying Private Beneﬁts of Control from a Struc-
tural Model of Block Trades. Journal of Financial Economics 96, 33–55.
Albuquerque, R., Schroth, E., 2015. The Value of Control and the Costs of Illiquidity. Journal
of Finance 70, 1405–1455.
Andrews, I., Gentzkov, M., Shapiro, J. M., 2017. Measuring the Sensitivity of Parameter
Estimates to Estimation Moments. Quarterly Jounal of Economics 132, 1553–1592.
Arcidiacono, P., Ellickson, P. B., 2011. Practical Methods for Estimation of Dynamic Discrete
Choice Models. Annual Review of Economics 3, 363–394.
Aslan, H., Kumar, P., 2016. The product market eﬀects of hedge fund activism. Journal of
Financial Economics 119, 226–248.
Back, K., Collin-Dufresne, P., Fox, V., Li, T., Ljunqvist, A., 2018. Activism, Strategic
Trading, and Liquidity. Econometrica 86, 1431–1463.
Baron, D. P., 1983. Tender Oﬀers and Management Resistance. Journal of Finance 38, 331–
343.
Bazdresch, S., Kah, R. J., M., W. T., 2018. Estimating and Testing Dynamic Corporate
Finance Models. Review of Financial Studies 31, 322–361.
Bebchuk, L. A., Brav, A., Jiang, W., 2015. The long-term eﬀects of hedge fund activism.
Columbia Law Review pp. 1085–1155.
Bebchuk, L. A., Brav, A., Jiang, W., Keusch, T., 2020. Dancing with Activists. Journal of
Financial Economics 137, 1–41.
Bebchuk, L. A., Cohen, A., 2005. The costs of entrenched boards. Journal of Financial
Economics 78, 409–433.
Bebchuk, L. A., Jackson Jr, R. J., Jiang, W., 2013. Pre-disclosure accumulations by activist
investors: Evidence and policy. J. Corp. L. 39, 1.
Boyson, N. M., Ganthev, N., Shivdasani, A., 2017. Activism Mergers. Journal of Financial
Economics 126, 54–73.
Brav, A., Dasgupta, A., Matthews, R., 2022. Wolf Pack Activism. Management Science 68,
5557–5568.
50
Brav, A., Jiang, W., Kim, H., 2010. Hedge Fund Activism: A Review. Foundations and
Trends in Finance 4, 185–246.
Brav, A., Jiang, W., Kim, H., 2015. The Real Eﬀects of Hedge Fund Activism: Productivity,
Asset Allocation, and Labor Outcomes. The Review of Financial Studies 28, 2723–2769.
Brav, A., Jiang, W., Ma, S., Tian, X., 2018. How Does Hedge Fund Activism Reshape
Corporate Innovation? Journal of Financial Economics 130, 237–264.
Brav, A., Jiang, W., Partnoy, F., Thomas, R., 2008. Hedge Fund Activism, Corporate
Governance, and Firm Performance. Journal of Finance 63, 1729–1775.
Burkart, M., Lee, S., 2015. Signalling to Dispersed Shareholders and Corporate Control. The
Review of Economic Studies 82, 922–962.
Burkart, M., Lee, S., 2022. Activism and Takeovers. Review of Financial Studies 35, 1868–
1896.
Burkart, M., Lee, S., Voss, P., 2024. The Evolution of the Market for Corporate Control.
Working Paper .
Celik, M. A., Tian, X., Wang, W., 2022. Acquiring Innovation under Information Frictions.
The Review of Financial Studies 35, 4474–4517.
Corum, A. A., Levit, D., 2019. Corporate Control Activism. Journal of Financial Economics
133, 1–17.
Cronqvist, H., Fahlenbrach, R., 2009. Large Shareholders and Corporate policies. Review of
Financial Studies 22, 3941–3976.
Dasgupta, A., Fos, V., Sautner, Z., 2021. Institutional Investors and Corporate Governance.
Foundations and Trends in Finance 12, 276–394.
Davis, S. J., Haltiwanger, J., 1992. Gross job creation, gross job destruction, and employment
reallocation. The Quarterly Journal of Economics 107, 819–863.
DeMarzo, P. M., Uroˇ sevi´ c, B., 2006. Ownership Dynamics and Asset Pricing with a Large
Shareholder. Journal of Political Economy 114, 774–815.
Denes, M. R., Karpoﬀ, J. M., McWilliams, V. B., 2017. Thirty Years of Shareholder Ac-
tivism: A Survey of Empirical Research. Journal of Corporate Finance 44, 405–424.
Dimopoulos, T., Sacchetto, S., 2014. Preemptive Bidding, Target Resistance, and Takeover
Premiums. Journal of Financial Economics 114, 440–470.
Dimopoulos, T., Sacchetto, S., 2017. Merger Activity in Industry Equilibrium. Journal of
Financial Economics 126, 200–226.
Edmans, A., Holderness, C. G., 2017. Chapter 8 - Blockholders: A Survey of Theory and
Evidence. In: Hermalin, B. E., Weisbach, M. S. (eds.), The Handbook of the Economics of
Corporate Governance, North-Holland, vol. 1, pp. 541–636.
51
Eldar, O., Kirmse, T., Wittry, M. D., 2023. The rise of anti-activist poison pills. European
Corporate Governance Institute–Finance Working Paper pp. 2022–07.
Erickson, T., Whited, T. M., 2002. Two-Step GMM Estimation of the Erros-in-Variables
Model Using High-Order Moments. Econometric Theory 18, 776–799.
Erickson, T., Whited, T. M., 2012. Treating Measurement Error in Tobin’s q. Review of
Financial Studies 25, 1286–1329.
Ewens, M., Peters, R. H., Wang, S., 2024. Measuring Intangible Capital with Market Prices.
Working Paper .
Fos, V., 2019. The Disciplinary Eﬀects of Proxy contests. Management Science 63, 655–671.
Frydman, C., Papanikolaou, D., 2018. In Search of Ideas: Technological Innovation and
Executive Pay Inequality. Journal of Financial Economics 130, 1–24.
Gantchev, N., 2013. The Costs of Shareholder Activism: Evidence from a Sequential Decision
Model. Journal of Financial Economics 107, 610–631.
Gantchev, N., Grdil, O. R., Jotikasthira, C., 2018. Governance under the Gun: Spillover
Eﬀects of Hedge Fund Activism. Review of Finance 23, 1–38.
Gantchev, N., Sevilir, M., Shivdasani, A., 2020. Activism and empire building. Journal of
Financial Economics 138, 526–548.
Gentry, M., Stroup, C., 2019. Entry and Competition in Takeover Auctions. Journal of
Financial Economics 132, 298–324.
Gorbenko, A. S., 2019. How Do Valuations Impact Outcomes of Asset Sales with Heteroge-
neous Bidders? Journal of Financial Economics 131, 88–117.
Gorbenko, A. S., Malenko, A., 2014. Strategic and Financial Bidders in Takeover Auctions.
Journal of Finance 69, 2513–2555.
Gorbenko, A. S., Malenko, A., 2024. Auctions with Endogenous Initiation. Journal of Finance
79, 1353–1403.
Greenwood, R., Schor, M., 2009. Investor Activism and Takeovers. Journal of Financial
Economics 92, 362–375.
Grossman, S. J., Hart, O. D., 1980. Disclosure Laws and Takeover Bids. Journal of Finance
35, 323–334.
Gryglewicz, S., Mayer, S., Morellec, E., 2025a. A Unifying Theory of Shareholder Activism,
Ownership Dynamics, and Firm Policies. Working Paper .
Gryglewicz, S., Mayer, S., Morellec, E., 2025b. Investor Activism and the Green Transition.
Working Paper .
52
Hartzell, J. C., Ofek, E., Yermack, D., 2004. What’s in it for me? ceos whose ﬁrms are
acquired. The Review of Financial Studies 17, 37–61.
Hirst, S., 2018. Universal proxies. Yale J. on Reg. 35, 437.
Jensen, M. C., 1986. Agency Costs of Free Cash Flow, Corporate Finance, and Takeovers.
American Economic Review 76, 323–329.
Jenter, D., Lewellen, K., 2015. Ceo preferences and acquisitions. The Journal of Finance 70,
2813–2852.
Jiang, W., Li, T., Mei, D., 2018. Inﬂuencing Control: Jawboning in Risk Arbitrage. Journal
of Finance 73, 2635–2675.
Johnson, T. L., Swem, N., 2021. Reputation and Investor Activism: A Structural Approach.
Journal of Financial Economics 139, 29–56.
Jovanovic, B., Rousseau, P. L., 2002. The q-theory of mergers. American Economic Review
92, 198–204.
Kahn, C., Winton, A., 1998. Ownership structure, speculation, and shareholder intervention.
The Journal of Finance 53, 99–129.
Kaplan, S. N., Minton, B. A., 2012. How Has CEO Turnover Changed? International Review
of Finance 2, 57–87.
Klein, A., Zur, E., 2009. Entrepreneurial Shareholder Activism: Hedge Funds and Other
Private Investors. Journal of Finance 64, 187–229.
Krishnan, C., Partnoy, F., Thomas, R. S., 2016. The second wave of hedge fund activism:
The importance of reputation, clout, and expertise. Journal of Corporate Finance 40,
296–314.
Lee, B.-S., Ingram, B. F., 1991. Simulation Eestimation of Time-Series Models. Journal of
Econometrics 47, 197–205.
Levine, O., 2017. Acquiring Growth. Journal of Financial Economics 126, 300–319.
Levit, D., 2019. Soft Shareholder Activism. The Review of Financial Studies 32, 2775–2808.
Li, D., Taylor, L. A., Wang, W., 2018. Ineﬃciencies and Externalities from Opportunistic
Acquirers. Journal of Financial Economics 130, 265–290.
Manne, H. G., 1965. Mergers and the Market for Corporate Control. Journal of Political
Economy 73, 110–120.
Maug, E., 1998. Large Shareholders as Monitors: Is There a Trade-Oﬀ between Liquidity
and Control? Journal of Finance 53, 65–98.
Mello, A. S., Repullo, R., 2004. Shareholder Activism is Non-Monotonic in Market Liquidity.
Finance Research Letters 1, 2–10.
53
Michaelides, A., Ng, S., 2000. Estimating the Rational Expectations Model of Speculative
Storage: A Monte Carlo Comparison of Three Simulation Estimators. Journal of Econo-
metrics 96, 231–266.
Nikolov, B., Whited, T. M., 2014. Agency Conﬂicts and Cash: Estimates from a Dynamic
Model. Journal of Finance 69, 1883–1921.
Norli, Ø., Ostergaard, C., Schindele, I., 2015. Liquidity and shareholder activism. The Review
of Financial Studies 28, 486–520.
Phillips, G. M., Zhdanov, A., 2013. R&d and the Incentives from Merger and Acquisition
Activity. Review of Financial Studies 26, 34–78.
Rau, P. R., Xu, J., 2013. How do ex ante severance pay contracts ﬁt into optimal executive
incentive schemes? Journal of Accounting Research 51, 631–671.
Rhodes-Kropf, M., Robinson, D. T., 2008. The market for mergers and the boundaries of
the ﬁrm. The Journal of Finance 63, 1169–1211.
Scharfstein, D., 1988. The disciplinary role of takeovers. The Review of Economic Studies
55, 185–199.
Shleifer, A., Vishny, R. W., 1986. Large Shareholders and Corporate Control. Journal of
Political Economy 94, 461–488.
Taylor, L. A., 2010. Why are ceos rarely ﬁred? evidence from structural estimation. The
Journal of Finance 65, 2051–2087.
Taylor, L. A., 2013. CEO Wage Dynamics: Estimates from a Learning Model. Journal of
Financial Economics 108, 79–98.
Train, K. E., 2009. Discrete Choice Methods with Simulation. Cambridge University Press,
second ed.
Wang, W., 2018. Bid Anticipation, Information Revelation, and Merger Gains. Journal of
Financial Economics 128, 320–343.
Wang, W., Wu, Y., 2020. Managerial Control Beneﬁts and Takeover Market Eﬃciency.
Journal of Financial Economics 136, 857–878.
Wu, Y., 2018. What’s behind Smooth Dividends? Evidence from Structural Estimation.
Review of Financial Studies 31, 3980–4016.
Yermack, D., 2006. Golden handshakes: Separation pay for retired and dismissed ceos. Jour-
nal of Accounting and Economics 41, 237–256.
54
Internet Appendix
Appendix A. Estimation Details
We estimate the model using the simulated method of moments (SMM) of Lee and Ingram
(1991). Given the panel structure of our data, we follow the approach described in Nikolov
and Whited (2014) and Bazdresch et al. (2018) for constructing the weight matrix and the
standard errors. The intuition behind the SMM approach is to ﬁnd the set of parameter
values that minimizes the weighted distance between a set of moments generated by solving
and simulating the model and their empirical counterparts in the data. Formally, the vector
of SMM parameter estimates, ˆθ, is given by
ˆθ = argmin
θ
(
ˆh− 1
K
K∑
k=1
hk(θ)
)′
ˆW
(
ˆh− 1
K
K∑
k=1
hk(θ)
)
, (A.1)
where ˆh denotes the vector of empirical moments, K is the number of times the model is
simulated,hk(θ) denotes the vector of model-simulated moments for the parameter vector θ
and simulation k, and ˆW is the weighting matrix.
Following Michaelides and Ng (2000), we setK = 20 to alleviate simulation bias. For the
weight matrix, ˆW , we use the inverse of the covariance matrix of the empirical moments, con-
structed using the inﬂuence function approach of Erickson and Whited (2002), and applying
the correction of Erickson and Whited (2012). Before computing all the moments except the
means, we remove ﬁrm and year ﬁxed eﬀects. We solve the numerical minimization problem
in equation (A.1) using a global genetic algorithm.
We employ small preference shocks in the activist entry decision and the takeover decision
as a computational technique to avoid convergence issues. The scale of these Type I extreme
value shocks are chosen to be of economically insigniﬁcant size to ensure that they do not
substantively aﬀect the model solution. Speciﬁcally, in the baseline model, the scale of the
preference shocks imply an eﬀect on activist, bidder, and board value on the order of 10 −5
percent.
1
Appendix B. Model Elasticities
We report the elasticities of moments with respect to parameters and the elasticities of
parameters with respect to moments to support our identiﬁcation strategy. In Figures B.1,
B.2, and B.3, we report the ﬁrst type of elasticities, which we compute as
gi,j ˆθj/h(ˆθ)i, (B.1)
wheregi,j is the element of the gradient matrix G that corresponds to moment i and param-
eter j, ˆθj is the estimated value of the j-th parameter, and h(ˆθ)i is the model implied i-th
moment evaluated at the estimated values of the parameters. In Figures B.4 and B.5, we
report the second type of elasticities, which we compute as
λi,jh(ˆθ)j/ˆθi, (B.2)
where λi,j is the element of the sensitivity matrix Λ that corresponds to moment i and
parameter j, h(ˆθ)j is the model implied j-th moment evaluated at the estimated values
of the parameters, and ˆθi is the estimated value of the i-th parameter. We compute the
sensitivity matrix following Andrews et al. (2017).
2
Fig. B.1. Elasticities of Moments to Parameters (Moments 1–5)
This ﬁgure shows the elasticities of moments with respect to parameters. Speciﬁcally, we plot the measure
gi,j ˆθj/h(ˆθ)i, wheregi,j is the element of the gradient matrix G that corresponds to moment i and parameter
j, ˆθj is the estimated value of the j-th parameter, and h(ˆθ)i is the model implied i-th moment evaluated at
the estimated values of the parameters.
3
Fig. B.2. Elasticities of Moments to Parameters (Moments 6–10)
This ﬁgure shows the elasticities of moments with respect to parameters. Speciﬁcally, we plot the measure
gi,j ˆθj/h(ˆθ)i, wheregi,j is the element of the gradient matrix G that corresponds to moment i and parameter
j, ˆθj is the estimated value of the j-th parameter, and h(ˆθ)i is the model implied i-th moment evaluated at
the estimated values of the parameters.
4
Fig. B.3. Elasticities of Moments to Parameters (Moments 11–15)
This ﬁgure shows the elasticities of moments with respect to parameters. Speciﬁcally, we plot the measure
gi,j ˆθj/h(ˆθ)i, wheregi,j is the element of the gradient matrix G that corresponds to moment i and parameter
j, ˆθj is the estimated value of the j-th parameter, and h(ˆθ)i is the model implied i-th moment evaluated at
the estimated values of the parameters.
5
Fig. B.4. Elasticities of Parameters to Moments (Parameters 1–6)
This ﬁgure shows the elasticities of parameters with respect to moments. Speciﬁcally, we plot the measure
λi,jh(ˆθ)j/ˆθi, whereλi,j is the element of the sensitivity matrix Λ that corresponds to momenti and parameter
j,h(ˆθ)j is the model implied j-th moment evaluated at the estimated values of the parameters, and ˆθi is the
estimated value of the i-th parameter. We compute the sensitivity matrix following Andrews et al. (2017).
6
Fig. B.5. Elasticities of Parameters to Moments (Parameters 7–12)
This ﬁgure shows the elasticities of parameters with respect to moments. Speciﬁcally, we plot the measure
λi,jh(ˆθ)j/ˆθi, whereλi,j is the element of the sensitivity matrix Λ that corresponds to momenti and parameter
j,h(ˆθ)j is the model implied j-th moment evaluated at the estimated values of the parameters, and ˆθi is the
estimated value of the i-th parameter. We compute the sensitivity matrix following Andrews et al. (2017).
7