The “Wall Street Walk” and Shareholder
Activism: Exit as a Form of Voice
Anat R. Admati
Graduate School of Business, Stanford University




                                                                                                                    Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
Paul Pfleiderer
Graduate School of Business, Stanford University


    We examine whether a large shareholder can alleviate conflicts of interest between managers
    and shareholders through the credible threat of exit on the basis of private information. In
    our model, the threat of exit often reduces agency costs, but additional private information
    need not enhance the effectiveness of the mechanism. Moreover, the threat of exit can
    produce quite different effects depending on whether the agency problem involves desirable
    or undesirable actions from shareholders’ perspective. Our results are consistent with
    empirical findings on the interaction between managers and minority large shareholders
    and have further empirical implications. (JEL D53, D82, G10, G30, G34)




The role of active large shareholders in improving corporate performance has
been discussed extensively in the last two decades. Although large shareholders
(including pension funds, mutual funds, hedge funds, and other investors) hold
a substantial and increasing fraction of shares in public companies in the United
States, most large shareholders play a limited role in overt forms of shareholder
activism such as takeovers, proxy fights, strategic voting, shareholders’ pro-
posals, etc. One likely reason for this is that active shareholders only realize a
relatively small fraction of the benefits from their monitoring while bearing the
full cost, which can be substantial. In other words, we have a classic “free rider”
problem. In addition, legal barriers, agency problems affecting the incentives of
the large shareholder, and the fact that many large shareholders are committed
to being passive and not investing resources to monitor their portfolio firms




An earlier version of this paper has been previously circulated under the title “The ‘Wall Street Walk’ as a form
of Shareholder Activism.” We would like to thank Sugato Bhattacharyya, Jernej Copic, Bob Hall, Ken Judd,
Gustavo Manso, Christine Parlour, Maureen O’Hara, Ben Polak, Chester Spatt, Matt Spiegel, Masako Ueda;
seminar participants at Berkeley, MIT, Northwestern, Stanford, the University of Wisconsin at Madison, UBC,
and Yale; and especially Andy Skrzypacz and Jeff Zweibel for helpful comments. Send correspondence to Anat
Admati, Graduate School of Business, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-5015; telephone: 650-723-4987.
E-mail: admati@stanford.edu.

 The Author 2009. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Society for Financial Studies.
C
All rights reserved. For Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oxfordjournals.org.
doi:10.1093/rfs/hhp037                                               Advance Access publication May 18, 2009
    The Review of Financial Studies / v 22 n 7 2009



    have also worked to limit activism.1 If a large shareholder is aware that a firm’s
    management does not act in the best interest of shareholders, it may be rational
    for the shareholder to follow the so-called “Wall Street Rule” or “Wall Street
    Walk,” voting with his feet and selling his shares, rather than attempting to be
    active.
       Exit seems to be an alternative to activism, and as such appears to be incon-
    sistent with it. This has led some (e.g., Bhide 1993; Coffee 1993) to argue that




                                                                                                                          Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
    market liquidity impairs corporate governance. What seems to have not been
    widely recognized is that the threat of exit itself can be a form of shareholder
    activism. Palmiter (2002, pp. 1437–38) suggests that large shareholders may
    be able to affect managerial decisions through the “threat (actual or implied)
    of selling their holdings and driving down the price of the targeted company.”
    Presumably, if managers’ compensation is tied to share prices, and if the exit
    of a large shareholder has a negative price impact, then the presence of a large
    shareholder who is potentially able to trade on private information may help
    discipline management and improve corporate governance. In addition, the
    threat of exit may be important in making “jawboning” activities and behind-
    the-scenes negotiation with management effective.
       A number of questions arise immediately as one considers the possibility
    that the threat of exit can alleviate agency problems between managers and
    shareholders. First, can the threat of exit be credible? Since the key to the
    notion that the threat of exit has a disciplining effect is that exit drives the stock
    price of the targeted firm down, it would appear that the large shareholder suffers
    a loss when a threat to exit is carried out. This would seem to make the threat
    not credible. Second, even if the threat to exit is shown to be credible, would
    this threat always help align managerial incentives better with shareholders’
    preferences, or might it interfere with other forms of managerial discipline?
    Third, if the threat of exit on the basis of private information has a disciplinary
    impact, would additional information improve the situation further? In other
    words, is it always better if the large shareholder has more information? Fourth,
    will the threat of exit remain effective in disciplining managers if the large
    shareholder incurs additional costs in exiting (e.g., transactions costs)?
       In this paper, we examine all of these issues within a simple model where a
    manager’s incentives are not aligned with shareholders. In our model, a large
    shareholder has private information about the manager’s actions and/or about
    the consequences of these actions to the value of the firm, and can sell shares
    based on this information. All agents are rational and prices perfectly reflect
    all public information, including the large shareholder’s trading decisions. Our

1
    Many papers in the law and economics literature discuss the role of large shareholders in corporate governance,
    and many focus on shareholder activism. With each taking a different perspective on the subject, Black (1990);
    Grundfest (1993); Romano (1993); Black and Coffee (1994); Roe (1994); Macey (1997); Gillan and Starks
    (1998); Romano (2001); Palmiter (2002); Bainbridge (2005); and Bebchuk (2005) discuss how shareholder
    activism has been practiced, describe some of the barriers that have limited its use and effectiveness, and suggest
    ways in which large shareholders can become more involved in corporate governance.




    2646
    Threat of Exit in Manager–Shareholder Interaction



    model combines two common elements present in trading models and in models
    of executive compensation, namely that (i) large shareholders often collect
    information and use it for trading and (ii) explicit and implicit managerial
    compensation contracts often lead managers to be sensitive to market prices of
    their firms.
       We will consider two distinct types of agency problems. In one case, the
    manager can take an action that is undesirable from the shareholders’ perspec-




                                                                                                                        Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
    tive, but which produces a private benefit to the manager. In the other case, the
    action is desirable from the shareholders’ perspective, but it is privately costly
    to the manager.2 The manager’s decision and its impact, which the manager
    knows when a decision is made, will be observed publicly at the final date of
    our model, but in the short run investors have less than complete information
    about either the manager’s decision or the consequences of the action, if taken,
    or both. The large shareholder observes some information privately before
    other investors and may be able to sell shares on the basis of this information.
    For each of the agency problems and for a number of different information
    structures, we examine whether and to what extent the presence of the pri-
    vately informed large shareholder reduces the agency costs associated with the
    action.
       We show that the ability of large shareholders to exit on the basis of private
    information often helps in reducing agency costs and aligning managerial
    decisions with shareholders’ preferences. However, the nature and effectiveness
    of this mechanism can depend critically on the nature of the agency problem, as
    well as on the information structure. While the two types of agency problems
    described above (one with the “bad” action and one with the “good” action
    from the shareholders’ perspective) may seem to be mirror images of each
    other, we find that they can lead to dramatically different results. For example,
    if we assume that the agency problem is one of discouraging the manager from
    taking a “bad” action, then we find that the threat of exit by an informed large
    shareholder generally disciplines the manager and reduces the agency cost, and
    in no case makes the agency problem worse. The same is not true when the
    agency problem is one of motivating the manager to take a “good” action. In
    this case, it is possible that potential exit by an informed large shareholder does
    not reduce the agency cost, and it may even exacerbate the agency problem and
    increase the agency cost relative to a situation where the large shareholder is
    not present. The differences in results for the “bad” action and “good” action
    models are due to the fact that the inferences that can be made in equilibrium
    regarding the value of the firm conditional on exit behave differently in the two
    types of agency problems.

2
    We assume for most of the paper that investors are aware of which of these agency problems is present. (In
    Section 6, we discuss “model uncertainty,” where this is not true.) Mature firms with large cash reserves (free
    cash flow) may be more prone to a “bad action” type of agency problem. A “good action” problem may arise
    when the manager is reluctant to take on risky projects that are beneficial to shareholders but which entail high
    cost to the manager and carry the risk of failure and job loss.




                                                                                                             2647
    The Review of Financial Studies / v 22 n 7 2009



       We also show that, while the threat of exit on the basis of private information
    can have a disciplinary impact, more private information does not always lead
    to a better outcome, and in fact in some situations it may reduce or eliminate
    the disciplinary impact of the threat to exit. As discussed further below, our
    model and results are generally consistent with empirical findings on the role
    and impact of large shareholders in governance. In addition to noting the
    general empirical support, we suggest some more direct empirical tests of the




                                                                                                                  Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
    effectiveness of the threat of exit in resolving agency problems.
       There is an extensive theoretical literature on shareholder activism and on the
    role of large shareholders in corporate governance.3 The models in this literature
    typically assume that the large shareholder can take a costly action, often
    called “monitoring,” to affect the value of the firm. Monitoring is associated
    with the ownership of shares, and inconsistent with exit. While the possibility
    that the large shareholder trades is considered in a number of these papers,
    the focus is generally on the incentives of the large shareholder to engage
    in monitoring and/or on the ownership structures that arise endogenously. In
    our model, by contrast, the ability of the large shareholder to exit is itself the
    technology that may affect managerial decisions. While in most of our analysis
    we take the information structure as given and do not incorporate the cost of
    acquiring information, our results have several immediate implications for the
    case where information acquisition by the large shareholder is endogenous.
    This is discussed in Section 7.1.
       The notion that stock prices may play a role in monitoring managerial per-
    formance was discussed in Holmstrom and Tirole (1993). Their model and the
    focus of their analysis differ from ours in several ways. In particular, Holmstrom
    and Tirole focus on how the ownership structure of the firm affects the value of
    market monitoring through its effect on liquidity and on the profits speculators
    realize in trading on information. In our model, by contrast, we focus on the
    disciplining impact of a large shareholder’s threat of exit and examine how the
    effectiveness of this threat depends on the nature of the agency problem and
    the information structure.
       Gopalan (2005) and Edmans (2008) each consider the possibility that the
    ability to exit can have a positive impact on the firm. In Gopalan’s study,
    exit by an informed large shareholder creates value by encouraging another
    bidder to acquire information and implement improvements through a takeover
    mechanism. This mechanism for bringing about improvement is very different
    from the one at work in our model, which focuses on managerial incentives,
    and where the impact of large shareholder exit is due to its effect on managerial
    compensation. The main difference between our model and that of Edmans is


3
    A partial list includes Huddart (1993); Admati, Pfleiderer, and Zechner (1994); Burkart, Gromb, and Panunzi
    (1997); Bolton and Von Thadden (1998); Kahn and Winton (1998); Maug (1998); Katz and Owen (2001); Tirole
    (2001); Noe (2002); Aghion, Bolton, and Tirole (2004); Faure-Grimaud and Gromb (2004); Hartzell and Starks
    (2004); Mello and Repullo (2004); Yung (2005); and Attari, Banerjee, and Noe (2006).




    2648
    Threat of Exit in Manager–Shareholder Interaction



    that our model addresses a fundamental agency problem that is most extreme
    if the manager’s compensation is not sensitive to prices, while Edmans suggests
    that there is no fundamental agency problem—the manager would always make
    the optimal decision from the shareholders’ perspective if his compensation
    were a fixed salary. The agency problem in Edmans arises because of the
    combined assumptions that the manager’s compensation depends on short-
    term prices (as in our model), and that the manager’s actions affect the price in




                                                                                                                           Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
    a particular way, namely the more productive the action, the more unfavorable
    the public signal that is generated in the short term.
        Several empirical studies of the role and impact of large shareholders present
    evidence that is consistent with our model.4 Carleton, Nelson, and Weisbach
    (1998) suggest that large shareholders can affect firms’ values through private
    negotiations. This is consistent with our model, because discipline through
    exit requires that the manager knows that the large shareholder is informed,
    and these private negotiations may be an effective means of communicating
    this. Parrino, Sias, and Starks (2003) provide evidence to support both the
    notion that large shareholders are better informed than other investors, as our
    model assumes, and the fact that they sometimes use their private information
    to “vote with their feet” prior to CEO turnover. They suggest that the price
    impact of these trades may affect corporate decisions. Sias, Starks, and Titman
    (2001) also suggest that large shareholder trading has a price impact that is
    likely due to superior information, consistent with our model. More recently,
    and consistent with our model, Massa and Simonov (2006) and Qiu (2006)
    show that noncontrolling large shareholders can have meaningful impact on
    managerial decisions, particularly in preventing managers from taking value-
    reducing actions such as bad acquisitions.
        A number of recent papers have focused attention on hedge fund activism,
    and their findings are also consistent with our model. Using 13D and other
    filings over various periods of time, Klein and Zur (2009) and Brav et al.
    (2006) suggest that hedge funds help reduce agency costs and that their activism
    increases firm value. Klein and Zur (2009) argue that hedge funds are able
    to affect managerial decisions through the perceived threat of a proxy fight.
    However, they find that the results of hedge fund activism do not seem to depend
    on whether a proxy fight was explicitly mentioned in the 13D filing or whether
    a proxy fight actually took place. Clifford (2008) also examines hedge fund
    activism, comparing situations where hedge funds define themselves as activists
    to those where the same funds define themselves as passive.5 The results of all
    these papers are consistent with the notion that the (perceived) threat of exit
    helps explain why certain large investors are able to affect managerial decisions.

4
    For a survey of the empirical literature, see Gillan and Starks (2007).
5
    The possibility of exit is explicitly mentioned in the example given by Clifford (2008, Appendix B), where Steel
    Partners II states that among the possible actions it might take would be “selling some or all of its Shares.” Kahan
    and Rock (2007) and Bratton (2007) discuss in detail various aspects of hedge fund activism.




                                                                                                                2649
  The Review of Financial Studies / v 22 n 7 2009



  Indeed, our model assumes that the manager is aware of the fact that the
  large shareholder is informed. The SEC filings made by the large shareholder,
  which are studied empirically in these studies, may be one source of this
  awareness.
     In a recent paper, Brenner (2007) presents empirical evidence that is sup-
  portive of our model and results. Brenner finds, using a global data set, that
  liquidity and the share of CEO equity-related pay to total pay are comple-




                                                                                        Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
  mentary. Moreover, he uses variables related to the legal and governance en-
  vironments in different countries to identify situations where particular types
  of agency problems (namely those with “bad action” versus those with “good
  action”) are likely to be severe, and to show that the threat of exit seems to
  be differentially effective across the different agency problems. In Section 8,
  we discuss some unique features of our model that can be exploited in future
  empirical studies to examine whether the threat of exit plays a role in corporate
  governance.
     The paper is organized as follows. We introduce our basic model and the
  two agency problems in Section 1. Section 2 analyzes the case where the large
  shareholder’s private information includes only the manager’s action and no
  investor observes the effect of the action on the value of the firm until the final
  period. In Section 3, we examine what happens when the large shareholder
  privately observes both the manager’s decision and its impact on the firm’s
  value. Section 4 considers the case where the manager’s action is observed by
  all investors and the large shareholder’s private information includes only the
  action’s implications. For completeness, we analyze in Section 5 the case in
  which the impact of the action on the firm value is publicly known, and the
  private information of the large shareholder only concerns whether the action
  is taken or not. In Section 6, we consider various extensions and variations
  on the model, such as the case where information acquisition is endogenous,
  the case where the large shareholder’s trade is not completely observable but
  masked by the trading of other liquidity traders, the case where exit by the large
  shareholder is costly to the large shareholder and possibly to all shareholders,
  and situations where investors have uncertainty about the manager’s private
  cost or benefit or about the type of agency problem. Section 7 discusses the
  empirical predictions of our analysis. Section 8 offers concluding remarks.


1. The General Model
  There are three periods in our model. In Period 0, the manager, whom we denote
  by M, decides whether or not to take a particular action. An agency problem
  arises because M and the shareholders of the firm have conflicting preferences
  with respect to this action. We will analyze two distinct models using the same
  notation. In one model, which we refer to as model B, the action available to M
  is “bad” in the sense that it is undesirable from the shareholders’ perspective,
  but the action produces a private benefit to M. In another model we analyze,



  2650
    Threat of Exit in Manager–Shareholder Interaction



    model G, the action is “good” for shareholders in that it increases the value of
    the firm, but it requires M to incur a private cost. We denote the value of the
    firm if M does not take the action by ν. If M takes the action in model B, then
    the value of the firm decreases by δ̃ ≥ 0 and becomes ν − δ̃, while M obtains
    a private benefit of β > 0. If the action is taken in model G, then the value of
    the firm increases by δ̃ ≥ 0 and becomes ν + δ̃, while M incurs a private cost
    of β > 0. These two models may seem like mirror images of each other but, as




                                                                                                                         Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
    we will see, in our setting they can produce dramatically different results.
       Our basic assumptions regarding uncertainty and the information structure
    are as follows. The status quo value of the firm ν is fixed and common knowl-
    edge.6 In Period 0, investors assess that δ̃ has a continuous distribution f (·)
    with support on [0, δ], where δ is positive and possibly infinite. M observes the
    realization of δ̃ before making the decision whether to take the action or not.
    We further assume that the private cost or benefit β is fixed and known to all
    investors.7
       Since M makes a decision regarding the action after observing δ̃, the strategy
    can be described by a function a(δ̃), where a(δ̃) = 1 denotes the event in which
    M takes the action and a(δ̃) = 0 denotes the event in which he does not take it.
    In most of our analysis, investors will make inferences regarding the expected
    change in the firm value, the magnitude of which is given by a(δ̃)δ̃. To simplify
    the notation, we will use the shorthand ã to represent M’s action instead of
    a(δ̃). We assume that in the final period, investors do observe the realizations of
    both ã and δ̃. The value of the firm is therefore ν − ã δ̃ in model B and ν + ã δ̃
    in model G.
       We assume that the firm is owned by many small and passive investors, as
    well as by a large shareholder, whom we denote by L. For expositional clarity,
    we will from now on use female pronouns to refer to L. The exact ownership
    structure will not matter to our results, since valuation will be done under risk
    neutrality. We assume that L observes some private information regarding ã
    and/or δ̃ in Period 1, and that she may be in a position to sell her shares on the
    basis of this information. Because it generally reflects her private information,
    L’s trading decision will have an impact on the firm’s price in Period 1. This in
    turn has the potential to affect M’s decision if M cares about the market price
    of the firm in Period 1.
       The manager’s compensation is assumed to be linear in the realized mar-
    ket price of the firm in Periods 1 and 2, P1 and P2 . Specifically, we assume
    that M’s compensation is equal to ω1 P1 + ω2 P2 , where ω1 and ω2 are pos-
    itive coefficients representing the dependence of the compensation on the


6
    We can assume more generally that ν is random but that no agent has private information about it. In fact, the
    value of ν will not play any significant role in our analysis.
7
    As discussed in Section 6.3, our results cover the case where β is perfectly correlated with δ̃. If β is privately
    known only to the manager, then inferences based on L’s information and based on her trade become more
    complicated to analyze. Such a model is beyond the scope of this paper.




                                                                                                              2651
    The Review of Financial Studies / v 22 n 7 2009



    firm’s short-term (“Period 1”) and long-term (“Period 2”) price performance,
    respectively.8 The potential impact of L on M’s decision comes about through
    the impact of her trading decisions on P1 . We assume that the prices, P1 and
    P2 , are set by risk-neutral, competitive market makers and therefore reflect
    all of the information publicly available. This means that P2 equals ν − ã δ̃ in
    model B and equals ν + ã δ̃ in model G. In Period 1, P1 reflects the information
    contained in L’s trading decision, as is described in more detail below.




                                                                                                                            Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
       If M does not take the action, then his utility is simply his compensation,
    ω1 P1 + ω2 P2 . If he takes the action in model B, M’s utility is equal to the sum
    of his compensation and the private benefit β. Similarly, if M takes the action
    in model G, then his utility is equal to the compensation minus the private cost
    β. M chooses whether to take the action or not to maximize his expected utility
    for every realization of δ̃.
       We assume that L may be subject to a liquidity shock in Period 1. Specifically,
    there is a probability 0 < θ < 1 that, independent of her private information, L
    will need to sell her entire stake in Period 1. While the value of θ is common
    knowledge, only L knows her actual motives for trading when she trades. We
    generally assume that θ > 0, but our model is also well defined in the limit
    case where θ = 0 (i.e., when L is never subject to a liquidity shock). As will
    become clear, most of our results will apply to this case as well, and we will
    often use it for illustration. The main complication for the θ = 0 case is that
    additional equilibria can arise that are not the limit of any equilibrium for the
    case θ > 0 as θ vanishes.9 The equilibria we analyze when θ > 0 always have
    a well-defined limit as θ goes to zero, and these equilibria obtained in the limit
    as θ vanishes are indeed equilibria of the model in which θ = 0. If she is not
    subject to a liquidity shock, L chooses to sell her shares if the expected value
    of the firm given all her information is smaller than P1 , the price at which she
    would exit, where P1 incorporates the information communicated by the sale.
       We will analyze the Bayesian-Nash equilibria of models B and G under var-
    ious assumptions concerning what L and other investors observe in Period 1.
    In such equilibria M, using his information, makes the optimal decision regard-
    ing his action, taking L’s trading strategy as given. Similarly, L, based on her
    information, determines whether to sell her shares in the event that she is not

8
    We take the form of M’s compensation as exogenous here. Presumably, M’s compensation balances risk sharing
    and various agency considerations. If the agency problem considered in this paper were the only relevant
    problem in the contracting environment between M and shareholders, then it would be reasonable to endogenize
    the dependence of the compensation on prices. However, we believe that in reality M’s compensation is designed
    to solve a more complex problem. We therefore limit ourselves to asking what disciplinary impact L can have
    given any particular compensation function within our assumed structure. Note that if ω1 = 0, then L will not
    affect M’s decision through her trade. The case ω2 = 0 is significantly more complicated to analyze and, in some
    cases, it admits a large number of equilibria. For this special case, we have characterized the set of equilibria and
    derived their properties for some versions of our model. Details are available upon request.
9
    For example, there may be equilibria in which L never sells and therefore never has an effect on M’s decisions
    through her trading, or equilibria where L sells only some of her shares. Eliminating these equilibria would
    require restrictions on out-of-equilibrium beliefs. This is not necessary when θ > 0 since in this case exit always
    occurs with positive probability.




    2652
     Threat of Exit in Manager–Shareholder Interaction



     subject to a liquidity shock.10 Both M and L take as given the fact that P1 will
     reflect the conditional expectation of ã δ̃ based on the information available to
     investors, including L’s trading decision, in Period 1.
        For most of our analysis we will make the following tie-breaking assump-
     tions: (i) if M is indifferent between taking the action and not taking the action,
     then he takes the action; (ii) if L is indifferent between selling her shares and
     not selling, she sells her shares. When we use these assumptions, they will




                                                                                                                             Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
     not change the set of equilibria, because δ̃ has a continuous distribution and
     indifference will hold for at most one realization of δ̃.11
        Given a particular realization of δ̃, M must decide whether to take the action.
     It is easy to see that in the benchmark case in which L is not present and ã is
     not observed by investors until Period 2, M will take the action if and only if
     δ̃ ≤ β/ω2 in model B and if and only if δ̃ ≥ β/ω2 in model G. We assume that
     β/ω2 < δ, i.e., that there is a positive probability that, even without L present,
     M acts in the interests of the shareholders (refraining from taking the action in
     model B and taking the action in model G).12 For a strategy of M that specifies
     whether he takes the action or not as a function of δ̃, the ex ante expected value
     of the firm in model B is ν − E(δ̃ã). Similarly, in model G, the ex ante value of
     the firm given M’s strategy is ν + E(δ̃ã).
        Note that the best outcome from the shareholders’ perspective in model B is
     that M never takes the action, which means that the highest value of the firm in
     this case is ν. Since the firm value is reduced by δ̃ whenever ã = 1 relative to this
     best case, the ex ante expected agency cost associated with the action in model B
     is E(δ̃ã). Analogously, the first best from the shareholders’ perspective in model
     G is that M always takes the action, which increases the value of the firm from ν
     to ν + δ̃. Since in this case the increase of δ̃ is not realized whenever ã = 0, the
     ex ante expected agency cost in model G is equal to E(δ̃(1 − ã)) = E(δ̃) −
     E(δ̃ã). Thus, in model B the ex ante expected agency cost is reduced if E(δ̃ã)
     is made lower, while the opposite is true in model G. We are interested in the
     impact that L’s presence has on the ex ante expected agency cost in the two
     models, which from now on we will simply refer to as agency cost. This impact
     is measured by the difference between the agency cost in the equilibrium where
     L is not present and the agency cost in the equilibrium where L is present. We
     use the following terms:



10
     We do not need to consider trades by L that cannot arise from a liquidity shock, since such trades will generally
     lead to zero expected profits under reasonable assumptions about investors’ beliefs. However, when investors
     cannot be sure whether L’s trade is based on private information or liquidity, L makes positive profits when she
     trades on her information. See the discussion in Section 6.1 on the case where L trades anonymously.
11
     In a few cases the equilibrium will involve mixed strategies, and in those cases agents’ decisions, when indifferent,
     will be determined by the equilibrium (rather than by an assumption). This occurs, for example, in the case where
     δ̃ is publicly observable in Period 1, which is discussed in Section 5.
12
     This assumption, which holds trivially when δ is infinite, rules out extreme cases where the agency problem is
     so severe that L cannot have any impact.




                                                                                                                  2653
     The Review of Financial Studies / v 22 n 7 2009



     Definition. Consider the impact that L’s presence has on the agency cost
     associated with the action.
       (i) An equilibrium is disciplining if L’s presence has a positive impact (i.e.,
           the agency cost is lower when L is present than when she is not present).
      (ii) An equilibrium is nondisciplining if L’s presence has no impact on the
           agency cost.




                                                                                                                       Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
     (iii) An equilibrium is dysfunctional if L’s presence has a negative impact
           (i.e., the agency cost is higher when L is present than when she is not
           present).

         It is easy to see that in order for the equilibrium to be disciplining, L must have
     some information about ã in Period 1, and that some of her information at that
     point must be private. We will examine L’s impact under various information
     structures that satisfy this condition. We will at times also compare, for the
     same model specifications, L’s effectiveness in model B versus model G. To
     distinguish the different information structures, we will use superscripts to
     denote the information observed by L in Period 1, and subscripts to denote the
     information (if any) that is publicly observed by all investors in Period 1. For
     example, model Ba is model B where L observes ã in Period 1 and investors do
     not observe either ã or δ̃ directly until Period 2; model Ga,δ   a is model G where
     ã is observed publicly in Period 1, and, in addition, L observes δ̃ privately in
     Period 1. Note that when there is no subscript, investors do not observe either
     ã or δ̃ in Period 1. When there is no superscript, the model is the base or
     benchmark model where L is not present.


2. Action-only Monitoring
     We start our analysis by assuming that L observes privately whether M has taken
     the action (i.e., the realization of ã). However, neither L nor other investors
     are assumed to observe the realization of δ̃ until Period 2. The models in this
     section, therefore, are denoted by the superscript a (and no subscript).
          Consider first model Ba . It is easy to see that, since the action reduces the
     value of the firm, in every equilibrium of this model L sells her shares whenever
     she observes that M has taken the action.13 Let E s be the expected value of
     ã δ̃ conditional on L selling her shares and E ns be the expected value of ã δ̃
     conditional on L not selling her shares. Then the price of the firm in Period 1,
     P1 , can take on two possible values: ν − E s if L sells her shares, and ν − E ns
     if she does not. Note that, when θ > 0, L might be forced to sell for liquidity
     reasons even if M does not take the action, and this, together with the strategies
     of L and M, will need to be incorporated into the determination of E s and E ns .

13
     It is immediate that L must weakly prefer to sell if the action is taken, and we can invoke the tie-breaking
     assumption that she sells when she is indifferent. As we will see, in the unique equilibrium of our model, L in
     fact strictly prefers to sell her shares when the action is taken.




     2654
Threat of Exit in Manager–Shareholder Interaction



  If M takes the action for a particular δ, P2 is equal to ν − δ. Since L exits
with probability 1 when M takes the action, P1 is equal to ν − E s . Thus, M’s
expected utility is

                                 β + ω1 (ν − E s ) + ω2 (ν − δ).                 (1)

If M does not take the action, then P2 = ν, and P1 is equal to ν − E s with




                                                                                        Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
probability θ and ν − E ns with probability 1 − θ, because L sells if and only
if she is subject to a liquidity shock. Thus, M’s expected utility if he does not
take the action is

                             ω1 (ν − θE s − (1 − θ)E ns ) + ω2 ν.                (2)

Comparing Equations (1) and (2), we conclude that M will take the action if
and only if

                           β − (1 − θ)ω1 (E s − E ns ) − ω2 δ ≥ 0.               (3)

The potential impact of L’s presence comes about through the second term in
the equation above, (1 − θ)ω1 (E s − E ns ). This term depends on the difference
between the first-period price given a sale by L and the first-period price given
that L retains her shares. To the extent that exit reflects negative information,
this is negative. The absolute value of this difference measures the extent to
which L exerts “punishment” on M by selling her shares and driving the price
down when M takes the action.
   Note that, since ω2 > 0, the left-hand side of Equation (3) is decreasing in
δ. This implies that if M prefers to take the action for a given δ, then he must
strictly prefer to take it for all smaller values. An equilibrium of model Ba will
therefore be characterized by a cutoff point x such that the action is taken if
and only if δ̃ ≤ x. Given such a strategy for M, and since L sells her shares if
M takes the action or if she is subject to a liquidity shock, we have

                                Pr(δ̃ ≤ x)E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x)
                   E s (x) =                             ;    E ns (x) = 0.      (4)
                                θ + (1 − θ)Pr(δ̃ ≤ x)
Note that we use the notation E s (x) to signify the dependence of E s on the
cutoff point x. Since investors can infer that ã = 0 (the action was not taken)
if L does not sell her shares, E ns (x) = 0 independent of x. The calculation of
E s (x) takes into account that with probability θ, a sale by L is due to a liquidity
shock and, therefore, is uninformative about ã δ̃, while with probability 1 − θ,
a sale implies that ã = 1 and therefore, given M’s strategy, that δ̃ ≤ x. Note
that for a given x, E s (x) is decreasing in θ, and in the limit case where θ = 1,
E s (x) = Pr(δ̃ ≤ x)E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x). Conversely, when θ vanishes, E s approaches
E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x), since in this case a sale conveys perfectly that ã = 1.
   Now consider M’s decision whether or not to take the action. Since δ̃ has a
continuous distribution, it is easy to see that in any disciplining equilibrium, M



                                                                               2655
     The Review of Financial Studies / v 22 n 7 2009



     must be indifferent between taking and not taking the action at the equilibrium
     cutoff δ̃ = x B .14 Thus, x B must satisfy

                            β − (1 − θ)ω1 (E s (x B ) − E ns (x B )) − ω2 x B = 0.                                  (5)

         Let us now turn to model Ga . Since the action increases the value of the
     firm, in every equilibrium L sells her shares if the action is not taken (or if




                                                                                                                            Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
     she is subject to a liquidity shock), and retains her shares if the action is taken.
     Let E s and E ns be the conditional expectations of ã δ̃ given sale and no sale by
     L, respectively. If M takes the action for δ̃ = δ, then P2 = ν + δ, and, since L
     sells if and only if she is subject to a liquidity shock, P1 is equal to ν + E s with
     probability θ and ν + E ns with probability 1 − θ. Thus, M’s expected utility if
     he takes the action is

                      −β + ω1 (θ(ν + E s ) + (1 − θ)(ν + E ns )) + ω2 (ν + δ).                                      (6)

     If M does not take the action, then P1 = ν + E s , since L sells with probability
     1, and P2 = ν. Thus, M’s expected utility if he does not take the action is

                                                ω1 (ν + E s ) + ω2 ν.                                               (7)

     It follows that M prefers to take the action if and only if

                                 −β + (1 − θ)ω1 (E ns − E s ) + ω2 δ ≥ 0.                                           (8)

     The left-hand side of Equation (8) is increasing in δ, so an equilibrium for this
     model involves a cutoff point x such that M takes the action if and only if
     δ̃ ≥ x. Since L sells her shares if she is subject to a liquidity shock or if M does
     not take the action, we have for model Ga , again using the notation E s (x) and
     E ns (x) to signify the dependence of prices on M’s cutoff point,

                               θPr(δ̃ ≥ x)E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≥ x)
                 E s (x) =                               ;                 E ns (x) = E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≥ x).               (9)
                                θ + (1 − θ)Pr(δ̃ < x)
     In model Ga , no sale by L communicates to investors that the action was
     definitely taken (ã = 1), and thus that δ̃ ≥ x. A sale by L communicates that
     either the action was not taken (and therefore ã = 0 and δ̃ < x), or that L was
     subject to a liquidity shock, which is uninformative about ã and δ̃. Fixing x,
     E s (x) is increasing in θ. In the limit when θ = 1, a sale is uninformative about
     ã δ̃ and thus E s (x) = Pr(δ̃ ≥ x)E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≥ x). As θ vanishes, however, a sale
     implies that the action was definitely not taken, and thus in the limit E s (x) = 0.
          An equilibrium for model Ga will be characterized by a cutoff x G such that
     M is indifferent between taking and not taking the action when δ̃ = x G , and

14
     Our tie-breaking assumption is that M takes the action for δ̃ = x B , but of course with a continuous distribution
     this does not matter to the calculation of E s (x B ) and E ns (x B ) and therefore does not affect the equilibrium.




     2656
Threat of Exit in Manager–Shareholder Interaction



thus x G satisfies

                   −β + (1 − θ)ω1 (E ns (x G ) − E s (x G )) + ω2 x G = 0.      (10)

    As already observed, if L is not present, then the equilibrium cutoff point in
both models is equal to β/ω2 . That is, in this benchmark case the action is taken
for δ̃ ≤ x B = β/ω2 in model B and for δ̃ ≥ x G = β/ω2 in model G. Note also




                                                                                        Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
that in both models, shareholders are better off the lower the equilibrium cutoff
point, because when δ̃ is below the cutoff point in both models, M is not acting
in their best interests. The discipline L is able to exert on M’s actions is thus
measured in both models by how low the equilibrium cutoff is. The following
result characterizes the equilibrium for both models and compares model Ba
with model Ga in terms of L’s effectiveness in disciplining M. The proofs of
this and other results are found in the Appendix.

Proposition 1. In both model Ba and model Ga , there exists a unique equi-
librium, and the equilibrium is always disciplining.
  (i) In model Ba , equilibrium is characterized by a cutoff x B < β/ω2 such
      that the manager takes the action if and only if δ̃ ≤ x B and the large
      shareholder exits if the manager takes the action. The cutoff x B solves
      Equation (5), where E s (·) and E ns (·) satisfy Equation (6).
 (ii) In model Ga , equilibrium is characterized by a cutoff x G < β/ω2 such
      that the manager takes the action if and only if δ̃ ≥ x G and the large
      shareholder exits if the manager does not take the action. The cutoff x G
      solves Equation (10), and E s (·) and E ns (·) satisfy Equation (9).
(iii) Fixing β, ω1 , ω2 , and the distribution of δ̃, both x B and x G are increasing
      in θ.
(iv) Fixing β, θ, ω1 , ω2 , and the distribution of δ̃, x G < x B . That is, all else
      equal, the large shareholder is more effective in disciplining the manager
      in model Ga than in model Ba .

   This proposition states that when L observes ã privately and no investor
observes δ̃ until Period 2, the credible threat that L will exit if M does not
act in shareholders’ interests is an effective disciplining tool and reduces the
agency cost. L’s impact is decreasing in θ, the probability that she is subject to
a liquidity shock, because a higher value of θ makes her trades less informative
and reduces her ability to “punish” M for not acting in shareholders’ interests.
   Perhaps surprisingly, since the two models appear as mirror images of each
other, part (iv) of Proposition 1 states that, fixing all the model’s parameters,
L is more effective in model Ga than she is in model Ba . To understand this
result, consider how inferences differ across the two models for a fixed cutoff
value x. In model Ba , the difference between the expected value of the firm
when the manager takes the action and when he does not is E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x),
while in model Ga this difference is E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≥ x). Clearly, for every



                                                                               2657
     The Review of Financial Studies / v 22 n 7 2009



     x, E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x) < E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≥ x). Since L observes whether the action is taken,
     the absolute difference between the prices when L exits and when she does
     not will be larger in model Ga than in model Ba . This is easy to see when
     θ = 0, since in this case L’s trade reveals perfectly whether the action was
     taken or not. In this case |E ns (x) − E s (x)| = E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≥ x) in model G and
     |E ns (x) − E s (x)| = E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x), which is smaller, in model Ba . The price dif-
     ference across L’s trading decision is in fact larger in model Ga than in model




                                                                                                                                Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
     Ba for any cutoff level x, and also when θ < 1. Since L has a larger impact
     on M’s compensation in model Ga than she has in model Ba for any potential
     cutoff level, it follows that the equilibrium cutoff levels satisfy x G < x B .
        A related observation is that L’s disciplining tool, equal to the net price
     impact of exit |E s (x) − E ns (x)|, behaves differently in the two models as the
     cutoff x goes to zero (i.e., as we approach the best situation (in both models)
     from the shareholders’ perspective). In model Ba , |E s (x) − E ns (x)| goes to
     zero as x vanishes. Thus, as M’s preferences get better aligned with those of
     shareholders, the tool that L can use to discipline M vanishes in model Ba . This
     is not true in model Ga , where |E s (x) − E ns (x)| always has a positive lower
     bound even as x vanishes.15 Thus, L is better able to exert discipline in model
     Ga than in model Ba .
        The reader may wonder whether the different results we obtain for models
     Ba and Ga are driven by our assumption that L can only sell or hold her
     shares, but is (in our model) precluded from buying shares. We have analyzed
     the model under various assumptions about the types of trade L can make,
     including the assumption that L can buy shares, and we have found that our
     qualitative results do not change under different specifications of the possible
     trading actions available to L: L is always more effective in model Ga than
     in model Ba . Whatever is assumed about L’s “action space” (i.e., the possible
     trades she can make), there will be a trade (e.g., buy if this is possible, or
     hold) that is taken if the manager “does the right thing” from the shareholders’
     perspective and a different trading decision (e.g., hold or sell) if the manager
     does the “wrong thing.” What drives the difference between the models is the
     fact that as discipline improves and the manager does less of the “wrong thing,”
     L’s disciplining tool, captured by the difference in P1 across these two trades,
     vanishes in model Ba but not in model Ga .16


3. Is L More Effective with More Private Information?
     We now assume that L is able to observe privately not only whether M has
     taken the action, i.e., the realization of ã, but also the realization of δ̃. We

15
     If θ = 0, E ns (x) − E s (x) = E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≥ x) > E(δ̃) > 0. More generally, E ns (x) − E s (x) has a positive lower bound
     that depends on θ.
16
     Details of the analysis of a variation of the model that allows L to potentially buy shares are available upon
     request.




     2658
     Threat of Exit in Manager–Shareholder Interaction



     continue to assume that neither ã nor δ̃ is observed by other investors until
     Period 2. As will become clear, the resulting models, denoted by Ba,δ and Ga,δ ,
     produce results dramatically different from each other with this information
     structure, and we will therefore discuss them separately.
        Consider model Ba,δ first. Note that, since ω2 > 0, any equilibrium must
     still involve M taking the action only if δ̃ falls below a cutoff point. Again, it
     is easy to see that in any equilibrium, L prefers not to sell her shares if M does




                                                                                                                        Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
     not take the action. However, when L observes δ̃, it is no longer the case that
     she always prefers to sell when the action is taken. If δ̃ < E s , where E s is the
     market’s conditional expectation of ã δ̃ given that L sells, then even if M takes
     the action, the price response to the sale, measured by E s , is more severe than
     the loss to the value of the firm that L will incur if she retains her shares, which
     is equal to δ̃. Thus, L will not want to sell if δ̃ < E s .
        The above implies that if M takes the action for δ̃ ≤ x, then we must have

                 θPr(δ̃ ≤ x)E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≥ e) + (1 − θ)Pr(δ̃ ∈ [E s (x), x])E(δ̃ | δ̃ ∈ [E s (x), x])
     E s (x) =                                                                                    ,
                                        θ + (1 − θ)Pr(δ̃ ∈ [E s (x), x])
                                                                                               (11)
     and

                                             Pr(δ̃ < E s (x))E(δ̃ | δ̃ < E s (x))
                              E ns (x) =                                          .                            (12)
                                                  1 − Pr(δ̃ ∈ [E s (x), x])

     This implicitly assumes that E s (x) must be smaller than x, which can be seen
     by noticing that E s (x) is a weighted average of Pr(δ̃ ≤ x)E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x) and
     E(δ̃ | δ̃ ∈ [E s (x), x]), both of which are smaller than x. (As discussed below,
     this property does not hold in model Ga,δ .) A sale by L communicates that
     either the action was taken and L chose to sell, i.e., ã = 1 and δ̃ ∈ [E s (x), x],
     or L was subject to a liquidity shock. No sale by L communicates that either
     the action was not taken, or that it was taken and δ̃ < E s (x). In equilibrium,
     the cutoff point x B will satisfy the indifference condition for M given again by

                           β − (1 − θ)ω1 (E s (x B ) − E ns (x B )) − ω2 x B = 0.                              (13)

     The following result states that an equilibrium for model Ba,δ with the charac-
     terization described above exists, and that L always has a disciplinary impact
     in equilibrium.17

     Proposition 2. There exists at least one equilibrium in model Ba,δ , and every
     equilibrium is disciplining. For every equilibrium, there is a cutoff x B < β/ω2
     such that the manager takes the action if and only if δ̃ ≤ x B , and the large


17
     The equilibrium in this model is not always unique. However, it is unique when δ̃ has a uniform distribution, as
     in the example we use below.




                                                                                                             2659
     The Review of Financial Studies / v 22 n 7 2009



     shareholder sells shares if the action is taken and δ̃ ≥ E s (x B ), where E s (·) and
     E ns (·) are given by Equations (11) and (12) and x B solves Equation (13). The
     probability that the large shareholder sells shares in equilibrium is positive
     when θ > 0 and vanishes as θ goes to zero.

        Note that L has a disciplinary impact in this model even though in equilibrium
     an actual exit may be observed quite rarely. This is unlike model Ba , where L




                                                                                                                               Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
     sells her shares in equilibrium whenever δ̃ ≤ x B . In fact, when the probability
     of a liquidity shock θ is very small, L is extremely unlikely to exit in the
     equilibrium of model Ba,δ . Nevertheless, L can have a significant disciplinary
     impact despite this low probability of exit. When L exits, the market concludes
     that, except for the possibility of a liquidity shock, ã δ̃ ∈ [E s (x B ), x B ] and,
     therefore, that not only was the action likely to have been taken, but that, if the
     action was taken, then δ̃ is in the relatively more “harmful” range of values. In
     the limit when θ vanishes, L only exits when δ̃ = x B , i.e., with probability zero.
     A sale in this case communicates that the action was taken and that δ̃ is equal
     to the worst value for which the action is taken in equilibrium, namely x B .18
     Note, however, that while the price impact of a sale is more pronounced, the
     information content of L not selling is diminished. In particular, in the limit
     case when θ = 0, since L sells with probability zero, no information about ã δ̃ is
     communicated if L does not exit, and thus E ns (x B ) is equal to the unconditional
     expectation of ã δ̃ given M’s strategy of taking the action for δ̃ ≤ x B , namely
     Pr(δ̃ ≤ x B )E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x B ).
        Since L has strictly more information in model Ba,δ than in model Ba , is it the
     case that her impact is accordingly greater in model Ba,δ than in model Ba ? It
     turns out that more information does not necessarily make L more effective. We
     will consider first the limit case where θ = 0, and then discuss the general case
     θ > 0. Let x be a candidate cutoff point for M’s strategy. If M takes the action
     when δ̃ ≤ x, then in model Ba , E s (x) = E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x) and E ns (x) = 0. As noted
     above, in model Ba,δ , we have E s (x) = x, and E ns (x) = Pr(δ̃ ≤ x)E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x).
     This is summarized in the table below:

                                                              E s (x)               E ns (x)

                             Model B with θ = 0
                                       a
                                                          E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x)              0
                             Model Ba,δ with θ = 0               x          Pr(δ̃ ≤ x)E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x)


        M’s decision of whether to take the action depends on E s (x) − E ns (x). Note
     that for any x, both E s (x) and E ns (x) are larger in model Ba,δ than they are in

18
     To understand this intuitively, note that when θ = 0, since L knows both ã and δ̃ and has no liquidity motivation
     for trade, it is not possible that, in equilibrium, L sells for more than one realization of δ̃ since E s (x B ) would
     have then had to be above one of the possible realizations of δ̃ for which L sells. This is a contradiction because
     it entails L selling for some realizations below E s (x B ), which is suboptimal. When θ > 0, then it is possible
     that E s (x B ) < x B and so there is an interval of realizations of δ̃ between E s (x B ) and x B for which L sells in
     equilibrium.




     2660
Threat of Exit in Manager–Shareholder Interaction



                 xB when L is not present
    0.8


    0.7

                xB in Model Ba,δ
    0.6




                                                                                                                        Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
                                                                 xB in Model Ba
    0.5
δ

    0.4
                                                             Es(xB) in Model Ba,δ
    0.3


    0.2
                                                       Es(xB) in Model Ba
    0.1
      0.0      0.1       0.2       0.3       0.4       0.5       0.6       0.7       0.8       0.9       1.0
                                                        θ
Figure 1
Is more information better?
An example of the equilibrium in models Ba and Ba,δ , assuming δ̃ (the loss to the firm due to the action being
taken) has uniform distribution and for all possible values of θ (the probability of liquidity shock). In each
equilibrium, the action is taken when δ̃ ≤ x B for the appropriate cutoff x B , and E s (·) measures the price impact
of a sale by the large shareholder.



model Ba . When L exits, the action is likely to be in a relatively more harmful
range in model Ba,δ than in model Ba , but when L does not exit, the action
may have still been taken in model Ba,δ but not in model Ba . Thus, it is not
clear which of the models produces a larger difference E s (x) − E ns (x) at the
equilibrium cutoff point. In fact, it can be shown that this difference depends
on the distribution of δ̃, and that it is entirely possible that more information
produces a worse outcome. That is, the equilibrium cutoff point might be higher
in model Ba,δ than it is in model Ba .
   Whether more information is better also depends on θ, the probability that
L is subject to a liquidity shock. As an example, consider the case where δ̃ is
distributed uniformly over [0, 1], β = 0.4, ω1 = 1, and ω2 = 0.5. If L is not
present, then, for this example, M takes the action if and only if δ̃ ≤ β/ω2 = 0.8.
Figure 1 shows the equilibrium cutoffs x B , as well as the price impact of exit,
measured by E s (x B ) in the equilibrium of both models for all values of θ. When
θ = 0, more information is clearly better. This is seen by noting that the cutoff
x B is lower in model Ba,δ than it is in model Ba . We see that in both models
x B is increasing in θ, which is intuitive. When θ is small, L is more effective
in model Ba,δ than she is in model Ba . However, for values of θ above 0.25,
the reverse is true (i.e, L is less effective when she has private information



                                                                                                               2661
     The Review of Financial Studies / v 22 n 7 2009



     about δ̃ in addition to ã (the cutoff point is higher in model Ba,δ than in model
     Ba )). The following proposition shows that for every distribution of δ̃, fixing
     the model’s other parameters, model Ba always produces better discipline than
     model Ba,δ as θ grows toward 1. In other words, for large enough values of θ,
     more information is not better but actually makes things worse.

     Proposition 3. For any given distribution of δ̃ and parameters β, ω1 , and ω2 ,




                                                                                                                        Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
     there exists θ̂ such that if θ > θ̂, then the large shareholder is more effective in
     disciplining the manager, and thus the agency costs are lower, in the equilibrium
     of model Ba than in any equilibrium of model Ba,δ .

        To understand this result, it is useful to note that in both models as θ → 1,
     E s (x) converges to E(δ̃ã) = Pr(δ̃ ≤ x)E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x). This is because as the prob-
     ability that L is subject to a liquidity shock grows to 1, a sale becomes less
     informative about ã δ̃. However, in model Ba,δ , even as θ grows, E ns (x) remains
     strictly positive, while in model Ba , E ns (x) is always equal to zero. Intuitively,
     as θ becomes large, exit carries the same (diminishing) information in both
     models, but the event in which L does not sell has very different information
     content in the two models. In model Ba , it guarantees that the action was not
     taken by M, while in model Ba,δ it is also consistent with the action being
     taken but δ̃ < E s (x). This means that for θ sufficiently large, E s (x) − E ns (x)
     is larger in model Ba than it is in model Ba,δ for all positive values of x, which
     implies that L is more effective in model Ba , where she does not have the
     private information about δ̃.
        We now turn to the model Ga,δ . In contrast to the comparison between model
     B and model Ba , we will show that L is never more effective in model Ga,δ
       a,δ

     than in model Ga and that, moreover, it is possible that the only equilibrium
     in model Ga,δ is nondisciplining. (Recall that the equilibrium in model Ga is
     always disciplining.) Thus, no additional disciplinary impact arises from the
     additional information about δ̃, and the additional information may in fact make
     L less effective or completely ineffective in disciplining M. The following result
     characterizes the equilibrium; it is discussed and illustrated further below.19

     Proposition 4. Model Ga,δ has a unique equilibrium. Equilibrium is charac-
     terized by a cutoff point x G such that M takes the action if and only if δ̃ ≥ x G
     and which satisfies exactly one of the following conditions:
       (i) It is identical to the equilibrium cutoff in model Ga ;
      (ii) It is strictly higher than the equilibrium cutoff in model Ga but smaller
           than β/ω2 ; or
     (iii) It is equal to β/ω2 .


19
     We are grateful to Andy Skrzypacz for helping us identify the appropriate equilibrium conditions for this model.




     2662
Threat of Exit in Manager–Shareholder Interaction



  In cases (i) and (ii), the equilibrium is disciplining, while in case (iii) the
equilibrium is nondisciplining.

    The above results show that there is a major distinction between models
Ba,δ and Ga,δ . In model Ba,δ , L always has a disciplinary impact, while this
is not true in model Ga,δ . The key difference between the models lies in the
possible relations between E s , the market expectation of ã δ̃ given a sale, and




                                                                                          Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
x, the cutoff in the manager’s strategy. For L to have a disciplinary impact at
the cutoff x, it is necessary in either model that when δ̃ = x, L sells when the
manager makes the undesirable choice and holds otherwise. In both models,
L will be willing to do this at δ̃ = x if and only if E s is less than or equal to
the cutoff x. In model Ba,δ , it turns out that E s will always be strictly less than
x (as long as θ > 0), so L always has a disciplinary impact. In model Ga,δ ,
however, E s can be strictly above x, and in these cases L will not have any
disciplinary impact.
    To understand how the three possible types of equilibria described in Propo-
sition 4 arise, first consider those cases where the equilibrium in model Ga
would be one where E s (x G ) ≤ x G . Recall that in the equilibrium of model Ga ,
where L only observes the manager’s action but not δ̃, she prefers to sell if
the action is not taken and to hold otherwise. If, in addition to observing ã, L
also observes the realization of δ̃, would she want to change her strategy? If
E s (x G ) ≤ x G in model Ga , then the answer is no: for any realization of δ̃, L
prefers to hold when the action is taken and sell when it is not taken. This is be-
cause for any δ̃ for which the action is taken, L’s shares, whose value increases
by δ̃, are worth at least as much as the selling price, since δ̃ ≥ x G ≥ E s (x G ). L,
therefore, has no desire to change her trading decision based on learning about
the realization of δ̃. It follows that when E s (x G ) < x G in the equilibrium of
model Ga , then this is also the unique equilibrium in model Ga,δ . This explains
case (i) in Proposition 4.
    Now consider those cases where in the equilibrium of model Ga , E s (x G ) >
x G . Assume again that L observes δ̃ in addition to the manager’s action choice.
With this additional information, will L still be content to follow her equilibrium
trading strategy in model Ga (i.e., to hold if the manager takes the action and
sell otherwise)? To see that she will not, suppose that δ̃ = x G , where x G is the
equilibrium cutoff in model Ga . If the manager takes the action and L observes
this, and also that δ̃ = x G < E s (x G ), then clearly L will prefer to sell even
though M has taken the action, because the price at which she will sell exceeds
the value of the firm whenever δ̃ < E s (x). This means that if E s (x G ) > x G in
the equilibrium of model Ga , then x G cannot be an equilibrium cutoff for model
Ga,δ . We show in the Appendix that in those cases where E s (x G ) > x G in the
equilibrium of model Ga , the equilibrium in model Ga,δ involves a higher cutoff
level and thus less discipline by L. In some situations (corresponding to case
(ii) in Proposition 4), the equilibrium is still disciplining, but less so than the
equilibrium of model Ga (the cutoff is higher), and E s (x G ) = x G in equilibrium.



                                                                                 2663
     The Review of Financial Studies / v 22 n 7 2009



            δ                                                                 xG in non-disciplining
                                                                                   equilibrium
              0.40
                                             Es (xG) = xG
              0.35
     β/ω2             xG in Model Ga
              0.30




                                                                                                                                 Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
              0.25                                                               xG in Model Ga
              0.20

              0.15

              0.10

              0.05

              0.00
                  0.0                 0.2               0.4                0.6                0.8
                                                                                                                  θ
                                A                       B                                 C
     Figure 2
     Equilibrium in model Ga,δ
     This figure presents the equilibrium of model Ga,δ for all possible values of θ (the probability of liquidity shock)
     in an example where δ̃ has a uniform distribution. In each equilibrium, the manager takes the action for δ̃ > x G .
     For values of θ in intervals A, B, and C, the equilibrium is of type (i), (ii), and (iii) of Proposition 4, respectively.

     In other cases (corresponding to case (iii) in Proposition 4), E s (x G ) > x G , and
     the equilibrium is not disciplining (i.e., x G = β/ω2 ).20
        We illustrate Proposition 4 with the following example. Suppose δ̃ is uni-
     formly distributed on [0, 1], β = 0.33, ω1 = 0.25, and ω2 = 1. The bold line
     in Figure 2 shows the equilibrium cutoffs for different values of θ. Note that for
     small θ (interval A), E s (x G ) < x G in model Ga , and the equilibrium of model
     Ga,δ is the same as that in model Ga . For an intermediate range of values of
     θ (interval B), the equilibrium cutoff in this example satisfies E s (x G ) = x G .
     This equilibrium is no longer the same as the equilibrium of model Ga , and
     it involves less discipline (i.e., a higher cutoff). In this intermediate range, L
     is indifferent between selling and not selling at the cutoff x G , but M strictly
     prefers to take the action at the cutoff. This equilibrium exists for model Ga,δ
     as long as the solution to E s (x) = x is smaller than β/ω2 . If this solution is
     larger than β/ω2 , then the unique equilibrium becomes nondisciplining, which
     occurs for relatively large values of θ (interval C) in this example.21

20
     Note that in this equilibrium L will typically use her private information about δ̃ to sell her shares when
     δ̃ ∈ [β/ω2 , E s ] even though M takes the action.
21
     It should be noted that, while the equilibrium cutoff is always increasing in θ (indeed, strictly increasing as
     long as the equilibrium is disciplining), the two types of disciplining equilibrium (those in parts (i) and (ii) of
     Proposition 4 and intervals A and B in Figure 2) do not always appear in the same order as in this example. It is
     possible that for relatively small values of θ, the equilibrium of model Ga,δ is of type (ii) in Proposition 4 (interval
     B of Figure 2), while for higher values of θ, it is of type (i) (interval A). It is also possible that the equilibrium is
     of type (i) both for very small and very large values of θ while it is of type (ii) for a range of intermediate values
     of θ. Which type of equilibrium prevails depends on all the parameters, namely θ, β, ω1 , and ω2 , as well as on
     the distribution of δ̃.



     2664
  Threat of Exit in Manager–Shareholder Interaction



     In sum, we have seen that if, in addition to observing whether the action
  is taken, L has private information about the consequences of the action, her
  disciplinary impact may be weakened. In contrast to model Ba,δ , where L
  always has a disciplinary impact and the additional δ̃ information can make
  L more effective in disciplining the manager, in model Ga,δ the additional δ̃
  information never makes L more effective and can in fact make her completely
  ineffective.




                                                                                          Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
4. Can L’s Presence Exacerbate the Agency Problem?
  In the models we have analyzed to this point, we have shown that L’s presence
  generally has a disciplinary impact on M and the worst equilibrium in terms of
  the agency cost is one where L has no impact at all. We have not encountered a
  dysfunctional equilibrium, one in which L’s impact is negative. In this section,
  we will show that L’s presence can actually make things worse. We will
  consider an information structure where ã is public in Period 1 (i.e., all investors
  observe whether M takes the action), and L’s private information consists of
  the realization of δ̃. Again, and quite dramatically, our two agency models will
  produce very different results. We first show that the equilibrium of model
  Ba,δ
     a is disciplining; in fact, the agency cost in this model is lower than that
  in either model Ba or model Ba,δ . By contrast, we show that in model Ga,δ          a
  the equilibrium is dysfunctional, and L’s presence increases the agency cost
  relative to the case where she is not present.
      In the models analyzed so far, where ã is not observed by investors until
  Period 2, if L is not present then discipline is only provided by the impact
  of the action on P2 , and so the equilibrium of model B is that M takes the
  action when δ̃ ≤ β/ω2 . Now consider model Ba , where L is not present and
  ã is public. Since ω2 > 0, equilibrium must again involve a cutoff x such that
  M takes the action if and only if δ̃ ≤ x. If M is observed taking the action,
  investors conclude that δ̃ ≤ x. Without any additional information, the expected
  value of ã δ̃ is E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x), and thus P1 = ν − E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x). Since P1 = ν if M
  does not take the action, the equilibrium cutoff x B is determined by

                                β − ω1 E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x B ) − ω2 x B = 0.            (14)

  Note that this is the same as the equilibrium cutoff in model Ba in the special
  case of θ = 0, i.e., where L observes ã privately and she is never subject to a
  liquidity shock (see Proposition 1). If θ = 0 in model Ba , then L exits if and
  only if the action was taken, so in equilibrium investors know with certainty
  whether or not the action was taken. This is the same situation as model Ba ,
  where ã is publicly observed and L is not present.
     Now consider model Ba,δ  a , where ã is public and L observes δ̃ privately. If
  the action is not taken, then the price in Period 1 is ν independent of L’s trade,
  and L sells only when she is subject to the liquidity shock. If the action is taken,
  then, as in model Ba,δ , L sells whenever δ̃ ≥ E s (x), where x is the cutoff value


                                                                                 2665
     The Review of Financial Studies / v 22 n 7 2009



     of δ̃ below which the action is taken. This means that when the action is taken,
     we must have22
                 θPr(δ̃ ≤ x)E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≥ e) + (1 − θ)Pr(δ̃ ∈ [E s (x), x])E(δ̃ | δ̃ ∈ [E s (x), x])
     E s (x) =                                                                                    ,
                                  θPr(δ̃ ≤ x) + (1−θ)Pr(δ̃ ∈ [E s (x), x])
                                                                                               (15)
     and




                                                                                                                      Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
                                        E ns (x) = E(δ̃ | δ̃ < E s (x)).                                     (16)

        In equilibrium, M must again be indifferent between taking and not taking
     the action at the cutoff δ̃ = x B . This means that any equilibrium cutoff x B in
     model Ba,δ
              a must satisfy

                                        β − ω1 E s (x B ) − ω2 x B = 0.                                      (17)

          Note that E ns (x B ), which measures the price impact of no sale, does not
     affect the determination of x B in this model, because if M takes the action when
     δ̃ = x B , then L sells her shares for sure, while if M does not take the action,
     P1 = ν independent of L’s trading. In other words, since M can be sure that
     P1 = ν if he does not take the action, and since L always exits when δ̃ = x B ,
     the inference investors would make if L retains her shares is irrelevant to M’s
     decision when δ̃ = x B .
         The next result confirms that there exists a unique equilibrium to model
     Ba,δ
        a and compares the agency cost associated with the action in this model to
     the agency costs in the equilibria of models Ba and Ba,δ analyzed in previous
     sections.

     Proposition 5. There exists a unique equilibrium in model Ba,δ
                                                                a and the equi-
     librium is disciplining. In equilibrium
       (i) The manager takes the action if and only if δ̃ ≤ x B , where x B is deter-
           mined by Equation (17);
      (ii) The large shareholder sells her shares if the action is taken and δ̃ ≥
           E s (x B ), where E s (·) is determined by Equation (15); and
     (iii) The agency cost is lower than the agency cost in the unique equilibrium
           of model Ba and is also lower than the agency cost in any equilibrium
           of model Ba,δ .

        The key to understanding how L’s presence affects M’s behavior is to ex-
     amine M’s incentives when δ̃ = x and x is assumed to be the manager’s cutoff.
     These incentives depend on the difference between the (expected) first-period
     price P1 when M takes the action and when he does not. While the short-term

22
     Note that these apply only if the action is taken. While our notation does not signify this fact, no confusion
     should arise.




     2666
Threat of Exit in Manager–Shareholder Interaction



compensation difference between taking and not taking the action is only a
function of L’s trading decisions in models Ba and Ba,δ , this is no longer true
when M’s action is publicly observable in Period 1. The following table shows
the first-period price in the three models when M does and does not take the
action. All prices are given as a function of the assumed cutoff point x and are
based on the assumption that θ = 0.




                                                                                                               Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
                                P1 if M does                P1 if M
      Model                    not take action            takes action               Difference

      Ba with θ = 0                   ν                 ν − E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x)         E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x)
      Ba,δ with θ = 0    ν − Pr(δ̃ ≤ x)E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x)        ν−x             x − Pr(δ̃ ≤ x)E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x)
       a with θ = 0
      Ba,δ                            ν                      ν−x                          x


   First consider the comparison between model Ba,δ and model Ba,δ          a . When
θ = 0 and δ̃ is at the cutoff x, if M takes the action, L exits and this reveals
perfectly that ã δ̃ = x in both models, since this is the only realization of δ̃ for
which L exits. If M does not take the action, however, then in model Ba,δ          a ,
P1 = ν since this will be observable to investors, but in model Ba,δ investors
only observe that L is not selling, which provides no information about ã δ̃
and the resulting first-period price is ν − E(δ̃ã) = ν − Pr(δ̃ ≤ x)E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x).
In other words, in both of these models M will suffer the “maximal hit” to his
compensation when he takes the action at the cutoff point, but the consequences
of not taking the action are quite different. In model Ba,δ investors do not learn
anything from L not exiting, since they do not observe ã and since L only exits
when δ̃ = x. However, since ã is public in model Ba,δ  a , the first-period price will
reflect the fact that the action was not taken. This means that the consequences
of taking the action are greater in model Ba,δ a and thus the agency cost in the
equilibrium of model Ba,δ  a  is lower than that in any equilibrium of model Ba,δ .
                                  a
   We now compare model B , where L observes ã privately and no investor
observes δ̃, and model Ba,δ  a , where ã is public and L observes δ̃ privately. In
both of these models, although for different reasons, P1 = ν if M does not take
the action. In model Ba this is because L retains her shares only if the action
is not taken, while in model Ba,δ   a this is because it is publicly observed that
the action was not taken. The difference in discipline comes about because if
M takes the action at the cutoff δ̃ = x, then in model Ba L sells her shares
and investors only know that δ̃ ≤ x, and thus P1 = ν − E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x), while in
model Ba,δa , investors know from the fact that L exits that δ̃ = x. It follows that
at any possible cutoff point x, the difference between P1 when M does not take
the action and when he does is again greater in model Ba,δ                      a
                                                              a than it is in B . This
                                                    a,δ
implies the equilibrium cutoff point in model Ba is always lower than that in
model Ba , and thus again that the agency cost is smaller.
   The above discussion, with appropriate modifications, applies to the model
with θ > 0. Model Ba,δ   a produces the best outcome from the shareholders’
perspective among the models considered so far, because, as in model Ba , M is
able to obtain the highest compensation when he does not take the action and at



                                                                                                        2667
The Review of Financial Studies / v 22 n 7 2009



the same time, as in model Ba,δ , he suffers the most severe consequences when
he does take the action at the cutoff point. Note, however, that this does not imply
that L has a larger disciplinary impact in model Ba,δ a than she does in the other
models, because the benchmark situation where L is not present is different
when ã is public information than when ã is not public information in Period 1.
In fact, it can be shown that L’s impact can be higher or lower in model Ba,δ     a
relative to models Ba and Ba,δ .




                                                                                             Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
   Let us now turn to model Ga,δ   a , and again we start with model Ga , where
L is not present and ã is public. If M is observed taking the action and L is
not present, the expected value of δ̃ will be E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≥ x), and thus the price in
Period 1 will be ν + E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≥ x), where x is the cutoff such that M takes the
action if and only if δ̃ ≥ x. Since the price if M does not take the action is ν,
the equilibrium cutoff x G is determined by

                             −β + ω1 E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≥ x G ) + ω2 x G = 0.                 (18)

    Note that again this is the same as the equilibrium cutoff point in model Ga
when θ = 0 (i.e., where L observes ã privately and is never subject to a liquidity
shock). This is because, when θ = 0, L’s trading in model Ga communicates
perfectly whether the action was taken. Now consider model Ga,δ    a . Since ã is
publicly observed, P1 = ν if the action was not taken, and this is independent
of whether L sells or not. If the action is taken for δ̃ ≥ x, then L exits when
δ̃ ≤ E s (x). Note that we must have x ≤ E s (x) because if ã = 1 then it is
publicly known that ã δ̃ ≥ x. This means that when the action is taken,

         θPr(δ̃ ≥ x)E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≥ e) + (1−θ)Pr(δ̃ ∈ [x, E s (x)])E(δ̃ | δ̃ ∈ [x, E s (x)])
 E s (x) =                                                                               .
                       θPr(δ̃ ≥ x) + (1 − θ)Pr(δ̃ ∈ [x, E s (x)])
                                                                                     (19)
    The equilibrium cutoff x G in model Ga,δ
                                           a must solve

                                  −β + ω1 E s (x G ) + ω2 x G = 0.                   (20)

Analogous to model Ba,δ    a , if the action is taken for δ̃ ≥ x, then E ns (x) =
E(δ̃ | δ̃ > E s (x)), but E ns (·) does not affect the determination of the equi-
librium cutoff x G .
   The next result states the existence of a unique equilibrium for model Ga,δ a .
Most interestingly, it shows that when ã is public information in Period 1,
having L privately observe δ̃ and potentially trade on this information actually
reduces the discipline placed on M. In other words, the agency cost in model
Ga,δ
  a is higher than that in model Ga , where L is not present, which means that
the equilibrium of model Ga,δ   a is dysfunctional.


Proposition 6. There exists a unique equilibrium in model Ga,δ
                                                           a and the equi-
librium is dysfunctional. In equilibrium:



2668
  Threat of Exit in Manager–Shareholder Interaction



     (i) The manager takes the action if and only if δ̃ ≥ x G , where x G is deter-
         mined by Equation (20);
    (ii) The large shareholder sells her shares if the action is taken and δ̃ ≤
         E s (x G ), where E s is determined by Equation (19); and
   (iii) The agency cost is higher than that in model Ga (i.e., the large share-
         holder’s impact on the agency costs is negative).




                                                                                        Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
     To understand why L’s presence is harmful in this model, consider again M’s
  incentives at a candidate cutoff point x. When L is not present, if M takes the
  action, he is rewarded by an increase in his first-period compensation equal to
  ω1 E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≥ x), because investors have no information about δ̃ other than what
  is revealed by the fact that M has chosen to take the action, which implies that
  δ̃ ≥ x. In model Ga,δa , L exits when δ̃ = x, since the selling price, ν + E s (x),
  is larger than the actual value of the firm given that M takes the action, which
  is ν + x when δ̃ = x. Exit by L communicates that the realization is relatively
  low among the values of δ̃ for which the action is taken, since L only chooses
  to sell when δ̃ ∈ [x, E s (x)]. (In the extreme case in which θ = 0, L only sells
  when δ̃ = x, and thus E s (x) = x.) Thus, when δ̃ = x, L’s trading causes the
  market to revise downward its expectation of δ̃ relative to the expectation based
  only on M’s willingness to take the action. For any potential cutoff x, this
  lowers the difference between the compensation for M in model Ga,δ    a when he
  takes the action and when he does not relative to the difference in model Ga . It
  follows that L’s presence reduces M’s incentives to take the value-enhancing
  action and shareholders would be better off if L were not present.
     Note that this implies that for θ = 0, the agency cost in model Ga,δ
                                                                       a is strictly
  higher than that in model Ga , because in this case model Ga is identical to
  model Ga . (In both of these models investors know perfectly when the action
  is taken but nothing more about δ̃.) Since we already observed that model Ga,δ
  produces the same or a worse outcome than model Ga , it follows that, for
  θ = 0, model Ga (equivalently model Ga ) produces a strictly lower agency cost
  than either model Ga,δ or model Ga,δ     a . When θ > 0, the comparison between
  the agency cost in models Ga,δ   a    and Ga turns out to be ambiguous, since ã is
                                    a,δ
  publicly observed in model Ga , while this information is only communicated
  with some noise in model Ga . The lowest agency cost for model G is obtained in
  model Ga where ã is publicly observed and L is not present. Note the difference
  between this result and Part (iii) of Proposition 4. The lowest agency cost for
  model B is obtained in model Ba,δ    a .




5. The Model with Action-only Uncertainty
  For completeness, we now discuss an information structure in which all in-
  vestors observe δ̃ in Period 1, while L observes, in addition, whether M has



                                                                               2669
The Review of Financial Studies / v 22 n 7 2009



taken the action. In other words, there is no uncertainty about δ̃, but only L
observes ã in Period 1. As we will show, this turns out to be the only informa-
tion structure that we examine where model B and model G behave like mirror
images of each other and, for the same parameters, produce the same type of
results in terms of L’s impact.
   When investors know the realization of δ̃, equilibrium will depend on the
realized value of δ̃. The prior distribution of δ̃ will not play any role in deter-




                                                                                      Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
mining the equilibrium. However, to the extent that δ̃ is drawn from a particular
distribution, one can still discuss the ex ante expected agency costs by inte-
grating over the possible values of δ̃ that investors observe in Period 1. The
next result characterizes the equilibrium and the agency cost in models Ba,δ    δ
and Ga,δ
       δ . Note  that equilibrium involves a mixed   strategy for M for a range  of
values of δ.

Proposition 7. In each of model Ba,δ              a,δ
                                     δ and model Gδ , there exists a unique
equilibrium, which is always disciplining.
  (i) In model Ba,δ
                  δ , equilibrium is characterized by a function m B (δ), such that
      for a given δ, the manager takes the action with probability m B (δ) and
      the large shareholder sells her shares if the manager takes the action.
      The mixing probability is given by
                ⎧
                ⎪                                                     β
                ⎪
                ⎪ 1,                                   if δ <
                ⎪                                             (1 − θ)ω1 + ω2
                ⎨                            
      m B (δ) =       θ           β − ω2 δ                    β                 β
                ⎪                                , if                   ≤δ≤ ω
                ⎪
                ⎪  1 −  θ    (ω 1 +  ω 2 )δ − β       (1 −  θ)ω 1 + ω 2          2
                ⎪
                ⎩
                  0,                                          otherwise.
                                                                              (21)

 (ii) In model Ga,δ
                  δ , equilibrium is characterized by a function m G (δ), such that
      for a given δ, the manager takes the action with probability m G (δ) and the
      large shareholder sells her shares if the manager does not take the action.
      Furthermore, m G (δ) = 1 − m B (δ) where m B (δ) is given in Equation (21).
(iii) Holding fixed θ, β, ω1 , ω2 , and the distribution of δ̃, the impact of the
      large shareholder’s presence on the agency cost is equal in model Ba,δ     δ
      and model Ga,δδ .


   The information structure analyzed in this section can be thought of as the
limit of the model with “action-only monitoring,” analyzed in Section 2, as
the distribution of δ̃ becomes degenerate. Proposition 7 shows that with no
uncertainty about δ̃, there is complete symmetry between model B and model
G. It is therefore clear that the differing results for the two models in previous
sections were driven by the inference investors must make in Period 1 about δ̃
based on L’s trading behavior.



2670
     Threat of Exit in Manager–Shareholder Interaction



6. Extensions and Variations of the Model

     6.1 Endogenous information acquisition and anonymous trading
     Our model has assumed that L is endowed with her private information, and
     that L’s trade is observable (i.e., that she does not trade anonymously). It
     follows that L’s ex ante expected trading profits in our model are zero. That
     is, before L observes her private information and before it is known whether




                                                                                                                     Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
     she is subject to a liquidity shock, the expected trading profits L obtains when
     she trades on private information are just offset by the expected losses she
     suffers when she is subject to a liquidity shock. Thus, the value of any private
     information acquired by L is only due to the increase in the value of her initial
     share holdings brought about by her disciplinary impact (i.e., to any decrease in
     the agency costs). This implies that if L can choose whether or not to become
     informed, a nondisciplining or a dysfunctional equilibria would not arise.23 In
     particular, if the agency problem is of the “good action” type, our results imply
     that the large shareholder will not acquire information about the consequences
     of the action (δ̃), since this will not lower the agency costs, and it may in fact
     lead to an increase in those costs.
        Recall that our results imply that the lowest agency costs across all informa-
     tion structures for “bad action” agency problems are obtained in Ba,δ     a (where
     investors observe the action and the large shareholder observes δ̃ privately),
     while the lowest agency cost for “good action” agency problems is obtained in
     Ga .24 This is suggestive of the type of information large shareholders are likely
     to collect in the various settings. In model B, information about δ̃ is always
     valuable if ã is publicly observed in Period 1. If ã is not publicly observable,
     then L will collect information about ã, and sometimes she will also collect
     information about δ̃. In model G, by contrast, L should never collect private
     information about δ̃. If ã is publicly observable in Period 1, then improving
     discipline through the threat of exit is not possible. If ã is not publicly observ-
     able in period 1, then the threat of exit will have a disciplinary impact if L
     collects information about ã and exits when the action is not taken. However,
     collecting additional information about δ̃ will never reduce agency costs, and
     it might eliminate L’s disciplinary impact.
        The result that L’s ex ante expected trading profits are zero is sensitive to
     our assumptions that L does not trade anonymously. If instead L trades anony-
     mously in a market that includes other liquidity traders, then two seemingly
     conflicting effects emerge. First, the direct impact of L’s trade on the price
     would tend to be lower than when the price is based on L’s trade alone. Other
     things equal, this would seem to reduce L’s ability to discipline M, since her
23
     An implicit assumption here is that if L acquires information, other investors, including the market maker,
     become aware of the fact that L has become informed (i.e., they know that L has acquired information but do
     not know its content). Disclosure requirements such as 13D filings may help bring this about.
24
     This statement holds under the assumption that investors have some uncertainty about δ̃ in Period 1. Thus, we
     are not considering models Ba,δ     a,δ
                                 δ and Gδ .




                                                                                                           2671
     The Review of Financial Studies / v 22 n 7 2009



     trade would have less direct impact on the manager’s compensation. At the
     same time, in the presence of other liquidity traders, L’s ex ante expected trad-
     ing profits would be positive. This might increase L’s willingness to gather
     information, especially when it is costly to do so, and this in turn may lead to
     an increase in her disciplinary impact.
        There are actually situations where L’s disciplinary impact would not neces-
     sarily be reduced even if her trade has a lower price impact due to the presence




                                                                                                                        Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
     of other liquidity traders. For example, suppose M’s compensation is sensitive
     to prices set after L makes her trading decision but before all of L’s informa-
     tion becomes public. Further, suppose that L’s trade, and possibly the motive
     for her trade, becomes public subsequent to the trade, due perhaps to trade
     disclosure requirements. Then there will be further price impact at the time
     when information about L’s trade becomes public, which would potentially
     affect M’s compensation and this would generally have a disciplining impact.
     Combining this with the fact that L would have stronger incentives to acquire
     costly information when she trades in a more liquid market, we would expect
     her overall disciplinary impact to be larger in this situation.
        As an example, suppose that M’s short-term compensation is based on the
     price prevailing at the end of the calendar year. If L exits anonymously in
     October, and then in November it becomes known or is disclosed that she
     has exited, then the price in December would fully reflect the fact that L has
     exited and this would affect M’s compensation. At the same time, L is able
     to benefit from her information advantage by trading anonymously in October,
     potentially allowing her to recover the cost of information or any other costs
     exit entails.25

     6.2 Costly exit
     Our model assumed that the large shareholder does not incur any costs in
     exiting other than the price impact of her trade due to her private information.
     However, if exit is costly in additional ways, then L’s decision whether to exit
     might be affected, and this can change the potential impact of the threat of
     exit on the manager. Two types of exit costs can be considered.26 The first is a
     simple transaction cost that L would incur whenever she trades. Clearly, exit
     can have a disciplining impact in the presence of such costs only if L’s trading
     profits, when she chooses to trade, cover the transactions costs. Since L knows
     whether her trade is due to a liquidity shock or is based on payoff-relevant
     information, she has an informational advantage over other investors, and this
     makes for positive expected trading profits when she is able to trade on the
     basis of her information.

25
     Of course, when L trades anonymously, she generally imposes a trading cost on other investors who may be
     subject to a liquidity shock. The additional cost on other investors should also be taken into account in a full
     analysis of this case.
26
     A detailed analysis of model Ba with the two types of exit costs is available upon request.




     2672
Threat of Exit in Manager–Shareholder Interaction



   It can be shown that when the transactions costs are not too high, disciplining
equilibria still exist, but these may involve L mixing between exit and no
exit. Not surprisingly, the presence of transactions costs generally weakens
the disciplinary impact of the threat of exit. This implies that the disciplinary
impact of the large shareholder will be lower when the market for the firm’s
stock is less liquid to the extent that less liquid markets can be interpreted as
those having higher transactions costs.




                                                                                      Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
   Consider now the possibility that L’s exit per se may lower the value of
the firm, for example, by eliminating the benefit of L’s future presence as
an active shareholder. This would cause the price impact of exit to be larger.
When L exits, the price drop would reflect the information about ã δ̃ that is
revealed by her decision to sell (i.e., the effect we have analyzed), and also
the loss in value brought about by the fact that L will no longer produce
benefits for the firm in the future. Obviously, this increases the costs to L of
selling and makes sale less desirable. However, unlike a simple transaction
cost, which is borne only by L, a loss in the value of the firm due to L’s
departure impacts M’s compensation directly. It is not intuitively clear whether
L is more or less effective in the presence of such exit costs. On the one
hand, to the extent that the exit “punishment” will be used less frequently
(because it is more costly for L to exit), this would generally tend to reduce
L’s disciplinary impact. However, when L does choose to exit, the negative
effect on M’s compensation is larger in the presence of the loss in firm value,
which would generally tend to increase L’s disciplinary impact. It can be
shown that it is possible for the agency costs to be lower in the presence of
exit costs that lower the value of the firm upon exit. In other words, these
exit costs can have positive value in that in their presence the agency costs
we consider are reduced by more than the loss in value associated with the
exit.


6.3 Additional uncertainty
While our model assumed that there is no uncertainty regarding the cost or
benefit of the action to the manager, our analysis actually covers a special case
where the private cost/benefit is random. This is the case when the private
cost/benefit is perfectly correlated with the consequences of the action, i.e.,
when β̃ = γ0 + γ1 δ̃ with γ0 > 0. This is a natural model when the bad action
involves perks and compensation or the good action’s consequences are in-
creasing with the manager’s costly effort. To see how this maps into our model
                      model B , and recall that when δ̃ = δ, M takes the action
                                a
consider, for example,
when β − (1 − θ)ω1 E s − E ns − ω2 δ ≥ 0. If β = γ0 + γ1 δ, a manipulation of
the equilibrium conditions shows that they are the same as those in Section 2
for the case of fixed β, with γ0 playing the role of the “fixed” value of β of
Section 2, and ω2 − γ1 playing the role of the coefficient ω2 in Section 2.
Since our analysis in Section 2, as well as in the rest of the paper, relied on the



                                                                             2673
     The Review of Financial Studies / v 22 n 7 2009



     assumption that ω2 > 0, the analysis applies fully to the model with β̃ =
     γ0 + γ1 δ̃ if γ1 < ω2 .27
        Another interesting extension of the model is to relax the assumption that the
     nature of the agency problem is common knowledge. If investors are uncertain
     about whether model B or model G is appropriate then, under the maintained
     assumption that L can only exit or retain her shares, it can be shown that L can
     only provide discipline for one of the two types of agency problems, but not




                                                                                                                          Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
     both.28 Interestingly, “model uncertainty” can enhance the disciplinary impact
     of L in the sense that for the agency problem that L alleviates, the possibility
     that the agency problem is of the other type can increase E s − E ns relative to
     the case where it is common knowledge what the agency problem is.


7. Empirical Predictions
     In this section, we discuss some of the empirical implications of our model.
     It should be noted that several implications of our models are consistent with
     models that involve other mechanisms, typically referred to as “monitoring” or
     “shareholder activism,” through which shareholders might exert control over
     managers. For example, since the presence of the informed large shareholder
     reduces the agency costs whenever the equilibrium is disciplining, our model
     implies that in these cases there will be a favorable stock market reaction to
     the (not fully anticipated) acquisition of a large block by a shareholder. This
     implication is shared by any model that incorporates some mechanism for a
     large shareholder to resolve agency problems. Our analysis also predicts that
     the effectiveness of the threat to exit as a disciplinary device generally increases
     when the large shareholder is less likely to be subject to a liquidity shock (i.e.,
     θ is lower). Again, many models would have a similar prediction.
        To detect empirically whether the threat of exit plays a meaningful role in
     governance and to distinguish it from other forms of shareholder activism,
     we must focus on the particular way the mechanism works, which crucially
     depends on the interaction between the large shareholder’s information and
     managerial compensation. To see how this can be done, recall that, in much of
     our analysis, the cutoff value of δ̃ for which the manager is indifferent between
     taking and not taking the action is equal to the x that solves

                                 (1 − θ)ω1 |E s (x) − E ns (x)| + ω2 x = β.                                     (22)


27
     If γ1 > ω2 , then some of our results would be “switched,” because in model B the manager will now take the
     action for all realizations of δ̃ above a cutoff, and in model G he will take the action for realizations below a
     cutoff value. The general observations, however (e.g., that additional information may lead to lower disciplinary
     impact and that L’s presence may exacerbate the agency problem), will not change.
28
     If L had a third possible trade (e.g., to increase her stake by buying more shares), then it would in principle be
     possible for her to provide discipline in both model B and model G. A full examination of this is beyond the
     scope of this paper.




     2674
     Threat of Exit in Manager–Shareholder Interaction



          The disciplinary effect of potential exit on the manager’s decision is felt
     through the first term on the left-hand side of Equation (22). In general, the
     larger this term, the lower the cutoff level and thus the lower the agency cost.
     As shown in Equation (22), the magnitude of this term depends on (i) the
     probability that the large shareholder is not subject to a short-term liquidity
     shock, 1 − θ, which we define as the “longevity” of the large shareholder; (ii)
     the difference between the first-period price if the large shareholder exits and




                                                                                                                        Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
     the price if she does not, |E s − E ns |; and (iii) the importance to the manager
     of short-term compensation, ω1 . While other models may also predict that the
     longevity of the large shareholder would enhance her effectiveness in reducing
     agency costs, Equation (22) suggests that when the threat of exit is effective
     in disciplining the manager, there is a significant interaction between the large
     shareholder’s longevity and the importance of short-term compensation, ω1 .
     Specifically, if we hold everything else constant, the degree to which the large
     shareholder’s longevity enhances her discipline on the manager is increasing
     in the importance of the manager’s short-term compensation, ω1 . Loosely
     speaking, longevity and short-term compensation are complements. Since such
     an interaction is not directly predicted by other models, if it is found empirically
     to hold, it would provide evidence that discipline through the threat of exit is
     likely at play.
        To see how this can be used in an empirical test, let Rblock be the abnormal
     return experienced when a large shareholder acquires a large block. Consider
     regressing Rblock on (i) some measure of the longevity of the large shareholder,
     (ii) some measure of the importance of short-term compensation,29 and (iii) the
     product of (i) and (ii). The critical coefficient in identifying the importance of
     the threat of exit in disciplining managers is the one on the interaction term.
     Other models of shareholder activism of which we are aware do not predict any
     relation between Rblock and this interaction term, while our analysis predicts a
     positive relation. A significant positive interaction effect would be an indication
     that the “Wall Street Walk,” i.e., the threat of exit, plays a meaningful role in
     corporate governance.
        A similar test of our model can be constructed using measures of market
     liquidity. We have shown that transactions costs generally reduce the effective-
     ness of the large shareholder’s threat to exit (see again the discussion in 7.2).
     This means that the large shareholder’s threat of exit is less effective in illiquid
     markets, which are characterized by higher transactions costs. As was true for
     longevity and ω1 , market liquidity and ω1 will be complements. Consider again
     a regression with Rblock as the dependent variable and introduce as one of the
     regressors the product of ω1 with a measure of market liquidity. Once again a



29
     Short-term stock-based compensation can include both unrestricted stock and options that have vested or will
     vest within a short time horizon. A measure of the significance of this type of compensation can take the weight
     of this component relative to total compensation.




                                                                                                             2675
     The Review of Financial Studies / v 22 n 7 2009



     test of our model would be based on finding a significant positive coefficient
     on this interaction term.
        We have shown that the effectiveness of the threat of exit as a disciplining
     device may be quite different depending on the nature of the agency prob-
     lem and the type of private information that motivates the large shareholder’s
     trades. To the extent that it is possible to make empirically identifiable distinc-
     tions across firms and/or settings with respect to the type of agency problem and




                                                                                                                      Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
     information structure that are likely to be present, our results will lead to pre-
     dictions regarding the effectiveness of the threat of exit by a large shareholder.
     For example, mature, cash-rich firms prone to “free cash flow” agency prob-
     lems, whose managers might be inclined to initiate value-reducing mergers, are
     probably those likely to be affected by a “bad action” type of agency problem.
     In addition, in such situations it is more likely that the information structure is
     one where the action is publicly observable but the large shareholder has pri-
     vate information about the consequences of the action. In this case, our model
     predicts that the threat of exit can be very effective in disciplining the manager.
     In contrast, in a situation in which the shareholder would want to motivate the
     manager to take a value-enhancing but privately costly action (such as a risky
     investment that might fail and lead to job loss for the manager), the presence
     of a large shareholder with private information about the consequences of the
     action does not alleviate the agency costs. This implies, for example, that the
     interaction effects discussed above would be smaller for firms more likely to
     fall in the second category than in the first.30


8. Summary and Conclusion
     This paper has identified a simple mechanism, namely the ability to exit on
     the basis of private information, by which large shareholders may be able
     to impact managerial decisions. This mechanism is based on the interaction
     between managers who care about their firm’s stock prices and the trading
     decisions of a large shareholder who is able to affect the price through the
     exit decision. In our model, the large shareholder does not engage in costly
     monitoring or “shareholder activism” in the usual sense, but simply trades
     optimally on the basis of her information. However, the threat of exit as a form
     of activism does not necessarily rule out other forms of activism; indeed, it may
     enhance their effectiveness.
        Our model assumed that there are potentially two sources of uncertainty for
     investors in the short run: (i) whether the manager has taken a particular action,
     and (ii) the long-run consequences of the action (if taken) on the future value
     of the firm. For the trading of the large shareholder to have any impact on
     managerial decisions, it is necessary that the large shareholder has information

30
     Brenner (2007) identifies settings, based on legal systems in different countries, in which different types of
     agency problems are likely to be relatively more severe.




     2676
     Threat of Exit in Manager–Shareholder Interaction



     in the short run about whether the action is taken; otherwise the manager will
     receive the same compensation whether he takes the action or not. It is also
     necessary that the large shareholder is better informed than other investors, so
     that her trading decision has a price impact (and thus an impact on managerial
     compensation) that would not obtain otherwise. Our analysis shows that the
     threat of exit is credible and that for the threat of exit to be effective, it is not
     necessary that exit actually occurs frequently.




                                                                                                                         Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
        We have found that the effectiveness of the “Wall Street Walk” in disciplining
     management depends on the type of the agency problem creating a conflict
     between management and shareholders. The two types of agency problems
     we analyze (one that we termed B, where the manager might take a value-
     reducing action that produces private benefits, and one that we termed G,
     where the manager might take a value-enhancing action that entails a private
     costs) produce quite different results. Some of these results are summarized in
     the table below.31


     Model B                                                  Model G
     (i) Threat of exit by the large shareholder generally    (i) The presence of the large shareholder and the threat
     has a disciplining impact. The presence of the large     of exit can actually make the agency problem worse.
     shareholder never makes the agency problem worse.
     (ii) Having private information about the conse-         (ii) Having private information about the conse-
     quences of the action, in addition to having private     quences of the action never makes the large share-
     information about whether the action was taken or        holder more effective and can make her completely
     not, does not necessarily make the large shareholder     ineffective in disciplining the manager.
     more effective and can make her less effective.
     (iii) If all investors observe whether the action was    (iii) If all investors observe whether the action was
     taken, then the large shareholder always reduces the     taken, then a large shareholder who can trade on private
     agency costs by trading on private information re-       information regarding the consequences of the action
     garding the consequences of the action.                  always increases the agency costs.
     (iv) If the large shareholder observes whether the ac-   (iv) If the large shareholder observes whether the ac-
     tion is taken and its potential consequences, then the   tion is taken and its potential consequences, then the
     agency cost can be further reduced if other investors    agency costs would increase if other investors also
     also observe whether the action is taken.                observe whether the action is taken.



        When the agency problem is one of discouraging a “bad” action (model B),
     the lowest agency costs among the models we considered occurs when investors
     observe publicly whether the action is taken and the large shareholder has pri-
     vate information about the consequences of the action. This would correspond
     empirically to such actions as value-reducing mergers or to other situations in-
     volving the abuse of “free cash flows.” As discussed in the introduction, there is
     empirical support to the notion that large shareholders reduce the agency costs
     in these situations. In contrast, when the problem is one of motivating a “good”
     action (model G), the table above shows that having private information about
     the consequences of the action in no case makes the large shareholder more
     effective and in fact can lead to the large shareholder becoming dysfunctional.

31
     The discussion that follows assumes that for investors other than the large shareholder there is a residual
     uncertainty about the consequences of an action (i.e., we do not consider models Ba,δ    a,δ
                                                                                       δ and Gδ ).




                                                                                                                2677
The Review of Financial Studies / v 22 n 7 2009



   Our results generally support the notion that liquidity need not interfere with,
and in fact may enhance, corporate governance. Much of what is known about
the interaction between large shareholders and managers is consistent with our
model and results. In particular, our model is consistent with the “targeting” of
firms and with behind-the-scene negotiations with managers, often referred to
as “jawboning.” These activities have been shown to be successful in affecting
managerial decisions, and the implicit or explicit threat of exit may be part of




                                                                                                            Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
the explanation for why minority shareholders are able to have this impact.


Appendix
                                             δ̄                      x                    δ̄
Proof of Proposition 1. Let A(x) = x δ dF(δ) , B(x) = 0 δ dF(δ) , and C(x)         = x dF(δ) . Con-
sider first model B. If x B < δ̄ is an equilibrium cutoff, then β − (1 − θ)ω1 E sB (x B ) − E ns
                                                                                              B
                                                                                                 (x B ) −
ω2 x B = 0, where

                                              B(x)
                         E sB (x) =                          ,             B
                                                                         E ns (x) = 0.             (A1)
                                      θ + (1 − θ) (1 − C(x))

The equilibrium will be unique if E sB (x) − E ns
                                               B (x) is nondecreasing in x. We have


                                                     B(x)         1 − C(x)
                           E sB (x) − E ns
                                        B
                                           (x) =                               .                   (A2)
                                                   1 − C(x)    1 − (1 − θ)C(x)

The first part of the product on the right-hand side of Equation (A2), namely B(x)/(1 − C(x)), is
equal to E(δ̃ | δ ≤ x), which is nondecreasing in x. The second part is nondecreasing in x since
C  (x) ≤ 0 and 0 < θ < 1. It is easy to see that x B < β/ω2 , which means that the equilibrium must
be disciplining.
     Now consider model Ga . If x G < δ̄ is an equilibrium cutoff, then
                                        G
                         −β + (1 − θ)ω1 E ns (x G ) − E sG (x G ) + ω2 x G = 0,                    (A3)

where
                                              θA(x)                              A(x)
                         E sG (x) =                         ,         G
                                                                    E ns (x) =        .            (A4)
                                      θ + (1 − θ)(1 − C(x))                      C(x)
                                                  G (x) − E G (x) is nondecreasing in x. We have
In this case, the equilibrium will be unique if E ns       s

                                                     A(x)        1 − C(x)
                               G
                             E ns (x) − E sG (x) =                            .                    (A5)
                                                     C(x)     1 − (1 − θ)C(x)

The first part of the product on the right-hand side of Equation (A5), namely A(x)/C(x), is equal
to E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≥ x), which is nondecreasing in x. The second part is the same as the second part in
Equation (A2) and is nondecreasing in x. To show that x G < x B whenever x B < δ̄, it is sufficient
to show that for all x in the support of δ̃, E ns
                                               G (x) − E G (x) > E B (x ) − E B (x ), or
                                                        s         s    B     ns B

                    A(x)         1 − C(x)                  B(x)         1 − C(x)
                                                     >                               .             (A6)
                    C(x)      1 − (1 − θ)C(x)            1 − C(x)    1 − (1 − θ)C(x)

This follows immediately since A(x)/C(x) = E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≥ x), which is clearly greater than B(x)/(1 −
C(x)) = E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≤ x).




2678
Threat of Exit in Manager–Shareholder Interaction


                                                        
Proof of Proposition 2. Let g(x) = β − (1 − θ)ω1 E s (x) − E ns (x) − ω2 x, where E s (x) and
E s (x) are defined by Equations (11) and (12). Since we assume that δ̃ is continuously dis-
tributed, it follows that E s (x) and E ns (x) are continuous functions of x. Moreover, for all
x > 0, E s (x) − E ns (x) > 0. Since g(0) > 0 and g(β/ω2 ) < 0, there must be at least one
x B ∈ (0, β/ω2 ) such that g(x B ) = 0, and this is an equilibrium cutoff for model Ba,δ . For any
given value of x, E s (x) solves

                          x                                           x




                                                                                                                            Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
                  θ           δ dF(δ) − θE s (x) + (1 − θ)                      (δ − E s (x)) dF(δ) = 0.             (A7)
                      0                                              E s (x)


    As θ → 0, it is clear that E s (x) → x. Since L sells on the interval [E s (x), x], the probability
of L selling vanishes as θ → 0.

Proof of Proposition 3. Let x  = β/w2 < δ̄, x1 (θ) be the highest-type manager that takes the
action in model Ba for a given θ, and x2 (θ) be the same for model Ba,δ . We want to show that
for θ sufficiently close to 1, the gain produced by L in model Ba is greater than that produced in
model Ba,δ . The gain is related to the size of the interval of δ̃ realizations that refrain from taking
the action due to L’s presence. For model Ba this is

                                 β    β − (1 − θ)w1 Q(x1 (θ), θ)   (1 − θ)w1 Q(x1 (θ), θ)
             x  − x1 (θ) =         −                            =                        ,                          (A8)
                                 w2              w2                        w2

where
                                                               x1 (θ)
                                                                      δ dF(δ)
                                     Q(x1 (θ), θ) =           0
                                                                        x (θ)
                                                                              .                                      (A9)
                                                        θ + (1 − θ) 0 1 dF(δ)

Note that

                                                                           x
                                          lim Q(x1 (θ), θ) =                    δ dF(δ) .                           (A10)
                                          θ→1                         0


For model Ba,δ this is

                                 β    β − (1 − θ)w1 R(x2 (θ), θ)   (1 − θ)w1 R(x2 (θ), θ)
             x  − x2 (θ) =         −                            =                        ,                         (A11)
                                 w2              w2                        w2

where
                                x (θ)                              x (θ)
                              θ 02      δ dF(δ) + (1 − θ) y(θ)
                                                            2
                                                               δ dF(δ)                          y(θ)
                                                                                                     δ dF(δ)
        R(x2 (θ), θ) =                                  x2 (θ)
                                                                                       −       0
                                                                                                   x2 (θ)
                                                                                                                ,   (A12)
                                        θ + (1 − θ)     y(θ) dF(δ)                          1 − y(θ)      dF(δ)

and where y(θ) solves

                                             x (θ)                                 x (θ)
                                         θ 02        δ dF(δ) + (1 − θ) y(θ)
                                                                         2
                                                                            δ dF(δ)
                               y(θ) =                                  x (θ)
                                                                                                   .                (A13)
                                                     θ + (1 − θ) y(θ)
                                                                   2
                                                                      dF(δ)

Note that

                                                            x                      y
                                                                                   0 δ dF(δ)
                              lim R(x2 (θ), θ) =                 δ dF(δ) −             x
                                                                                               ,                    (A14)
                              θ→1                       0                        1 − y  dF(δ)




                                                                                                                    2679
The Review of Financial Studies / v 22 n 7 2009



                x
where y  =                                                        
               0 δ dF(δ) . We now take the limit of (x − x 1 (θ))/(x − x 2 (θ)) as θ → 1. This is

                                                                                   x
                                                                                        δ dF(δ)
                  x  − x1 (θ)        Q(x1 (θ), θ)
              lim               = lim               =                          0
                                                                                            y
                                                                                                         ,   (A15)
              θ→1 x  − x 2 (θ)   θ→1 R(x 2 (θ), θ)                 x
                                                                                           0 δ dF(δ)
                                                                          δ dF(δ) −            x
                                                                0                        1 − y  dF(δ)




                                                                                                                     Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
which is strictly greater than 1 since y  > 0. This means that for θ sufficiently close to 1, the cutoff
below which the action is taken in model Ba is strictly smaller than that in model Ba,δ .

Proof of Proposition 4.        Define

                                                           δ̄
                                                         θ x δ dF(δ)
                                     E s (x) =                                     .                         (A16)
                                                                     δ̄
                                                  θ + (1 − θ) x dF(δ)

Let x G be the cutoff in model Ga and let z be the cutoff when there is no discipline, i.e., z = β/ω2 .
Finally, define x ◦ to be the solution to E s (x) = x. It is easy to show that such a solution always
exists and is unique since for all θ > 0, E s (0) = E(δ̃) > 0 and E s (x) is continuous and strictly
decreasing in x. Consider the following three cases:
 (1)    x G ≤ E s (x G ),
 (2)    x G > E s (x G ) and x ◦ < z, and
 (3)    x G > E s (x G ) and x ◦ ≥ z.
Note that these cases are mutually exclusive and exhaustive. If Case 1 holds, then the equilibrium
of model Ga is an equilibrium of model Ga,δ . If Case 2 holds, it is an equilibrium for M to take the
action if and only if δ > x ◦ and (absent a liquidity shock) for L to sell either if δ < x ◦ or the action
is not taken and otherwise holds. Finally, if Case 3 holds, there is a nondisciplining equilibrium,
where M takes the action only if δ > z and L (absent a liquidity shock) sells if δ < y or the action
is not taken, where y solves:

                                          δ̄                               y
                                        θ z δ dF(δ) + (1 − θ) z δ dF(δ)
                                y=                              y                        .                   (A17)
                                                θ + (1 − θ) 0 dF(δ)

   Now we must show that the equilibrium is unique. The only possibility for more than one
equilibrium to exist is for there to exist a disciplining equilibrium (with a cutoff x < z) and a
nondisciplining equilibrium with a cutoff equal to z. Let θm be the minimum value of θ that is
consistent with a nondisciplining equilibrium. At this value y = z and we have

                                                         δ̄
                                                    θm  z δ dF(δ)
                                     z=                        z      .                                      (A18)
                                               θm + (1 − θm ) 0 dF(δ)

   This means that for a nondisciplining equilibrium to exist, θ must be such that
                                                           z
                                                       z 0 dF(δ)
                                θ ≥ θm =                                  .                                  (A19)
                                                 δ̄            z
                                                z δ dF(δ) + z 0 dF(δ) − z

   Now, since z > x, it follows that

                          δ̄                      δ̄
                       θ z δ dF(δ)             θ x δ dF(δ)
                                 z      <              x      = E s (x) ≤ x < z.                             (A20)
                 θ + (1 − θ)    0 dF(δ)   θ + (1 − θ) 0 dF(δ)




2680
Threat of Exit in Manager–Shareholder Interaction



      This implies that
                                                           z
                                                      z 0 dF(δ)
                               θ<                                             = θm ,                 (A21)
                                        δ̄            z
                                       z δ dF(δ) + z 0 dF(δ) − z

which contradicts Equation (A19), which is necessary for the existence of a nondisciplining
equilibrium. Thus we cannot have both types of equilibria.




                                                                                                               Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
Proof of Proposition 5.       Let
                                              x                           x
                                       θ 0 δ dF(δ) + (1 − θ) Q a (x) δ dF(δ)
                          Q a (x) =               x                       x            ;
                                         θ 0 dF(δ) + (1 − θ) Q a (x) dF(δ)
                                              x
                                             0 δ dF(δ)
                           Q b (x) =                x       ; and                                    (A22)
                                       θ + (1 − θ) 0 dF(δ)
                                          x                      x
                                       θ 0 δ dF(δ) + (1 − θ) Q c (x) δ dF(δ)
                           Q c (x) =                     x                   .
                                             θ + (1 − θ) Q c (x) dF(δ)

   To show that model Ba,δ a produces the highest ex ante value for the firm, it is sufficient to show
that for all x in the support of the distribution of δ, Q a (x) is at least as large as Q b (x) and Q c (x).
To see why this is sufficient, first note that any equilibrium cutoff x for model Ba,δ  a must solve

                                          β − w2 x = w1 Q a (x),                                     (A23)

while equilibrium cutoffs for model Ba and model Ba,δ solve respectively

                                       β − w2 x = (1 − θ)w1 Q b (x),                                 (A24)

and

                               β − w2 x = (1 − θ)(w1 Q c (x) − E ns (x)).                            (A25)

If Q a (x) is at least as large as Q b (x) and Q c (x), then there is an equilibrium cutoff solving Equation
(A23) that is no greater than any solving Equations (A24) and (A25). Moreover, if Q a (x) is strictly
larger than Q b (x) and Q c (x) (which will generally be the case), then there is an equilibrium cutoff
solving Equation (A23) that is strictly less than any solving Equations (A24) and (A25).
                                                                              b                    b
   We will first show that Q a (x) ≥ Q b (x) for all x. Define ab = a dF(δ) and ab = a δ dF(δ) ,
and let Q be shorthand for Q (x). It is straightforward to show that the sign of Q (x) − Q b (x) is
            a                       a                                                        a

the same as the sign of
                                                            
        θ2 1 − 0x 0x + θ(1 − θ) xQ a − xQ a 0x − (1 − θ)2 0x xQ a − xQ a 0x .               (A26)

The first term in Equation (A26) is clearly nonnegative. Consider now the last term. Observe that
                                                    a
                                                                                    a
                                                                                        
            0x xQ a − xQ a 0x = xQ a xQ a + 0Q xQ a − xQ a xQ a + xQ a 0Q
                                          a                       a
                                    = 0Q xQ a − xQ a 0Q .                                        (A27)

   Now, since x ≥ Q a ≥ 0, we have
                                                  a                   a
                                        0Q xQ a ≥ Q a 0Q xQ a
                                                       a              a
                                        xQ a 0Q ≤ Q a 0Q xQ a .                                  (A28)




                                                                                                     2681
     The Review of Financial Studies / v 22 n 7 2009



     This means that the last expression in Equation (A26) is nonnegative (and strictly positive if
     x > Q a > 0). It is easy to see that the nonnegativity of the last expression in Equation (A26) implies
     that the second expression in Equation (A26) is also nonnegative. This is because xQ a ≥ 0x xQ a .
                                                        x
     Now consider Q c (x). First note that if θ = θ 0 dF(δ) , Q a (x) = Q c (x). We need only consider
                               x                           x
     the cases where θ > θ 0 dF(δ) , i.e., θ > 0 and 0 dF(δ) < 1. From the definition of Q c (x), we
     know that Q c (x) is equal to y such that y solves
                                                  x                            x
                                           θ 0 δ dF(δ) + (1 − θ) y δ dF(δ)




                                                                                                                       Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
                                   y−                                     x                      = 0.          (A29)
                                                       θ + (1 − θ)        y dF(δ)

     Using the definition of Q a (x), one can easily see that
                                                   x                            x
                                                θ 0 δ dF(δ) + (1 − θ) Q a (x) δ dF(δ)
                              Q a (x) −                                   x                          > 0,      (A30)
                                                            θ + (1 − θ)   Q a (x) dF(δ)

                    x
     when θ > θ 0 dF(δ) . To show that Q a (x) ≥ Q c (x), it is sufficient to show that there is a unique
     solution to Equation (A29) and that the left-hand side of Equation (A29) is increasing in y at the
     solution. Let S(y) be the left-hand side of Equation (A29). It is straightforward to show that

                                                                   (1 − θ) f (y)
                                      S  (y) = 1 +                          x     S(y).                       (A31)
                                                               θ + (1 − θ) y dF(δ)

     One can see from Equation (A31) that S(y) is increasing at all values of y that solve Equation
     (A29). Since S(y) is continuous, this means that there is a unique y that solves Equation (A29).
     From this and Equation (A30), it follows that Q a (x) ≥ Q c (x).

     Proof of Proposition 6. First we prove that an equilibrium exists and is unique. To do this, we
     first show that for all x in the support of the distribution of δ̃, there is a unique E s (x) that solves
     the defining equation given by Equation (19) in Section 4, and that E s (x) is increasing in x. From
     Equation (19), we see that E s (x) is any value of y that solves


                                                       δ̄                              y
                                                  θ x δ dF(δ) + (1 − θ) x δ dF(δ)
                                      y=                                                                       (A32)
                                                               δ̄        y
                                                              x dF(δ) + x dF(δ)

     or, equivalently, that solves

                                           δ̄                                          y
                           S(y) = θ             (y − δ)dF(δ) + (1 − θ)                     (y − δ)dF(δ) = 0.   (A33)
                                       x                                           x


        It is easy to see that S(x) < 0, S(δ̄) > 0, and S  (y) > 0 for all y ∈ (x, δ̄). This means that there is
     a unique y > x that solves Equation (A33).32 Using the fact that Equation (A33) implicitly defines
     y as a function of x, it is easy to show that

                                                               (y(x) − x) f (x)
                                   y  (x) =                                                     > 0.          (A34)
                                                        δ̄                         y
                                                   θ x dF(δ) + (1 − θ) x dF(δ)

        Thus E s (x) is an increasing function of x. Now, for an interior equilibrium in model Ga,δ
                                                                                                 δ (i.e.,
     one for which 0 < x G < δ̄), we must have −β + ω1 E s (x G ) + ω2 x G = 0. Since we have shown that

32
     Note that we are assuming that θ > 0. In the limit case where θ = 0, we have y = x as a solution to Equation
     (A33).




     2682
Threat of Exit in Manager–Shareholder Interaction



E s (x) is monotone increasing in x, it follows that if there is an interior equilibrium, it is unique.
(Otherwise, the equilibrium is not interior and either x G = 0 if −β + ω1 E s (0) > 0 or x G = δ̄ if
−β + ω1 E s (δ̄) + ω2 δ̄ < 0.)
    Define E a (x) = E(δ̃ | δ̃ ≥ x). As discussed in Section 4, when L is not present, the equilibrium
cutoff x is determined by −β + ω1 E a (x) + ω2 x = 0, while if L is present, the equilibrium cutoff
point is determined by −β + ω1 E s (x) + ω2 x = 0. To show that there is less discipline when L is
present, it is sufficient to show that E a (x) > E s (x) for all x < δ̄. We have




                                                                                                                             Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
                                δ̄                    δ̄                       E (x)
                               x δ dF(δ)         θ x δ dF(δ) + (1 − θ) x s             δ dF(δ)
     E a (x) − E s (x) =                    −
                                  δ̄                        δ̄        E s (x)
                                 x dF(δ)                   x dF(δ) + x        dF(δ)
                                            E (x)
                                                                   δ̄                  E s (x)
                                                                                                          
                                (1 − θ) x s          dF(δ)         x δ dF(δ)                    δ dF(δ)
                        =                                                      −       x
                                                                                                              > 0.   (A35)
                                δ̄        E s (x)                     δ̄                 E s (x)
                               x dF(δ) + x        dF(δ)              x dF(δ)            x        dF(δ)

The inequality in Equation (A35) follows since E s (x) < δ̄ if x < δ̄ and
            δ̄                E s (x)
                                                 
            x δ dF(δ)                  δ dF(δ)
                        −     x
                                                     = E(δ̃ | x ≤ δ̃) − E(δ̃ | x ≤ δ̃ ≤ E s (x)) > 0.                (A36)
               δ̄               E s (x)
              x dF(δ)          x        dF(δ)


Proof of Proposition 7. Consider first model Ba,δ     δ . It is clear that in any equilibrium, L exits
whenever M takes the action and retains them whenever M does not take the action (unless
subjected to a liquidity shock). Let m B (δ) be the probability that M takes the action in model Ba,δ
                                                                                                   δ
when the realization of δ̃ is δ. This means that

                                                m B (δ)δ
                               E s (δ) =                      ;            E ns (δ) = 0.                             (A37)
                                           θ + (1 − θ)m B (δ)


   M is indifferent between taking the action and not taking it if and only if

                            β − ω1 E s (δ) − ω2 δ = −ω1 (θE s (δ) + (1 − θ)E ns (δ))                                 (A38)


   or

                                                           m B (δ)δ
                              β − (1 − θ)ω1                                − ω2 δ = 0.                               (A39)
                                                      θ + (1 − θ)m B (δ)


    Now consider model Ga,δ , and let m G (δ) be the probability that M takes the action for a given
δ. In this case, in any equilibrium, L will retain her shares when M takes the action (unless she is
subject to a liquidity shock) and sell if M does not take the action. This means that when δ̃ = δ,
we have

                                               θm G (δ)δ
                            E s (δ) =                            ,              E ns (δ) = δ.                        (A40)
                                        θ + (1 − θ)(1 − m G (δ))


   It follows that in model Ga,δ
                             δ , M is indifferent between taking the action and not taking it if and
only if
                                   
                            −β + ω1 θE s (δ) + (1 − θ)E ns (δ) + ω2 δ = ω1 E s (δ)                                   (A41)




                                                                                                                     2683
The Review of Financial Studies / v 22 n 7 2009



or

                                                  (1 − m G (δ))δ
                       −β + (1 − θ)ω1                                       + ω2 δ = 0.                    (A42)
                                             θ + (1 − θ)(1 − m G (δ))

   Note that Equation (A39) defines the function m B (δ) over the range of δ for which m B (δ) ∈ (0, 1)
and Equation (A42) does the same for m G (δ).




                                                                                                                     Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
References
Admati, A. R., P. Pfleiderer, and J. Zechner. 1994. Large Shareholder Activism and Financial Market Equilibrium.
Journal of Political Economy 102:1097–130.

Aghion, P., P. Bolton, and J. Tirole. 2004. Exit Options in Corporate Finance: Liquidity versus Incentives. Review
of Finance 8:327–53.

Attari, M., S. Benerjee, and T. Noe. 2006. Crushed by Rational Stampede: Strategic Share Dumping and
Shareholder Insurrections. Journal of Financial Economics 79:181–222.

Bainbridge, S. 2005. Shareholder Activism and Institutional Investors. Law and Economics Research Paper No.
05–20, UCLA School of Law.

Bebchuk, L. A. 2005. The Case for Increasing Shareholder Power. Harvard Law Review 118:833–914.

Black, B. S. 1990. Shareholder Passivity Reexamined. Michigan Law Review 89:520–608.

Black, B. S., and J. C. Coffee. 1994. Hail Britannia? Institutional Investor Behavior under Limited Regulation.
Michigan Law Review 92:1997–2087.

Bolton, P., and E. L. von Thadden. 1998. Blocks, Liquidity, and Corporate Control. Journal of Finance 53:1–25.

Bratton, W. W. 2007. Hedge Funds and Governance Targets. The Georgetown Law Journal 95:1375–433.

Brav, A., W. Jiang, F. Partnoy, and R. Thomas. 2006. Hedge Fund Activism, Corporate Governance, and Firm
Performance. Journal of Finance 63:1729–75.

Brenner, S. 2007. Passive Shareholders and Active Manager: An Empirical Test of Admati and Pfleiderer’s
Hypothesis. Working Paper, Humboldt University of Berlin, Germany.

Burkart, M., D. Gromb, and F. Panunzi. 1997. Large Shareholder, Monitoring and the Value of the Firm. Quarterly
Journal of Economics 112:693–728.

Carleton, W. T., J. M. Nelson, and M. S. Weisbach. 1998. The Influence of Institutions on Corporate Governance
through Private Negotiations: Evidence from TIAA-CREF. Journal of Finance 1135–362.

Clifford, C. 2008. Value Creation or Destruction? Hedge Funds as Shareholder Activists. Journal of Corporate
Finance 14:323–36.

Coffee, J. C. 1991. Liquidity versus Control: The Institutional Investor as Corporate Monitor. Columbia Law
Review 91:1277–368.

Edmans, A. 2008. Blockholder Trading, Market Efficiency, and Managerial Myopia. Journal of Finance, Forth-
coming.

Faure-Grimaud, A., and D. Gromb. 2004. Public Trading and Private Incentives. Review of Financial Studies
17:985–1014.

Gillan, S. L., and Laura T. Starks. 1998. A Survey of Shareholder Activism: Motivation and Empirical Evidence.
Contemporary Finance Digest 2:310–34.

Gillan, S. L., and L. T. Starks. 2007. The Evolution of Shareholder Activism in the United States. Journal of
Applied Corporate Finance 19:55–73.




2684
Threat of Exit in Manager–Shareholder Interaction



Gopalan, R. 2006. Large Shareholder Trading and Takeovers: The Disciplinary Role of Voting with Your Feet.
Working Paper, Ross School of Business, University of Michigan, November.

Grundfest, J. 1993. Just Vote No: A Minimalist Strategy for Dealing with Barbarians Inside the Gates. Stanford
Law Review 45:857–903.

Hartzell, J. C., and L. T. Starks. 2003. Institutional Investors and Executive Compensation. Journal of Finance
58:2351–74.




                                                                                                                    Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/22/7/2645/1601640 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
Holmstrom, B., and J. Tirole. 1993. Market Liquidity and Performance Monitoring. Journal of Political Economy
101:678–709.

Huddart, S. 1993. The Effect of a Large Shareholder on Corporate Value. Management Science 39:1407–21.

Kahan, M., and E. Rock. 2007. Hedge Funds in Corporate Governance and Corporate Control. University of
Pennsylvania Law Review 155:1021–93.

Kahn, C., and A. Winton. 1998. Ownership Structure, Speculation, and Shareholder Intervention. Journal of
Finance 53:99–129.

Klein, A., and E. Zur. 2009. Entrepreneurial Shareholder Activism: Hedge Funds and Other Private Investors.
Journal of Finance 64:187–229.

Macey, J. R. 1997. Institutional Investors and Corporate Monitoring: A Demand-side Perspective. Managerial
and Decision Economics 18:601–10.

Massa, M., and A. Simonov. 2006. Shareholder Homogeneity and Firm Value: The Disciplining Role of Non-
controlling Shareholders. Working Paper, INSEAD.

Maug, E. 1998. Large Shareholders as Monitors: Is There a Trade-off between Liquidity and Control? Journal
of Finance 53:65–98.

Mello, A. S., and R. Repullo. 2004. Shareholders Activism Is Non-monotonic in Market Liquidity. Financial
Research Letters 1:2–10.

Noe, T. 2002. Investor Activism and Financial Market Structure. Review of Financial Studies 15:289–315.

Palmiter, A. R. 2002. Mutual Fund Voting of Portfolio Shares: Why Not Disclose? Cardozo Law Review
23(4):1419–91.

Parrino, R., R. W. Sias, and Laura T. Starks. 2003. Voting with Their Feet: Institutional Ownership Changes
around Forced CEO Turnover. Journal of Financial Economics 68:3–46.

Qiu, L. 2006. Which Institutional Investors Monitor? Evidence from Acquisition Activity. Working Paper,
Department of Economics, Brown University, June.

Roe, M. J. 1994. Strong Managers, Weak Owners: The Political Roots of American Corporate Finance. Princeton,
NJ: Princeton University Press.

Romano, R. 1993. Public Pension Fund Activism in Corporate Governance Reconsidered. Columbia Law Review
93:797–853.

Romano, R. 2001. Less Is More: Making Institutional Investor Activism a Valuable Mechanism of Corporate
Governance. Yale Journal on Regulation 18:174–252.

Sias, R., L. T. Starks, and S. Titman. 2001. The Price Impact of Institutional Trading. Working Paper, Department
of Finance, University of Texas, August.

Tirole, J. 2001. Corporate Governance. Econometrica 69:1–35.

Yung, C. 2005. Insider Trading with Private Information and Moral Hazard. Finance Research Letters 2:51–57.




                                                                                                         2685
