Finance Working Paper N° 685/2020
July 2020
Rui Albuquerque
Boston College, CEPR and ECGI
Vyacheslav Fos
Boston College, CEPR and ECGI
Enrique J. Schroth
EDHEC Business School and CEPR
© Rui Albuquerque, Vyacheslav Fos and Enrique J. 
Schroth 2020. All rights reserved. Short sections of 
text, not to exceed two paragraphs, may be quoted 
without explicit permission provided that full credit, 
including © notice, is given to the source.
This paper can be downloaded without charge from:
http://ssrn.com/abstract_id=3639636
https://ecgi.global/content/working-papers
Value Creation in Shareholder 
Activism: A Structural 
Approach
ECGI Working Paper Series in Finance
Working Paper N° 685/2020
July 2020 
Rui Albuquerque
Vyacheslav Fos 
Enrique J. Schroth
 
Value Creation in Shareholder Activism: A 
Structural Approach
We have benefitted from comments by Wei Jiang and participants at the Boston College brown bag lunch 
seminar. We also thank Inyoung Cho for excellent research assistance. 
© Rui Albuquerque, Vyacheslav Fos and Enrique J. Schroth 2020. All rights reserved. Short sections 
of text, not to exceed two paragraphs, may be quoted without explicit permission provided that full 
credit, including © notice, is given to the source.
Abstract
We model an investor’s choice between filing Schedules 13D and 13G and use 
the model to estimate expected returns to activist and passive investing. Using 
the model, we decompose average Schedule 13D filing announcement returns 
into treatment (75:2%), stock picking (12:2%), and sample selection components 
(12:6%).The treatment component of Schedule 13D announcement returns 
predicts improvements in firm performance and a lower probability of a proxy 
contest, suggesting that our estimate of the treatment component identifies more 
effective activism campaigns. Counterfactual analysis shows that if all investors 
shared the private cost of activism, a large fraction of Schedule 13G filings would 
have been filed as Schedule 13D, resulting in substantial firm value gains.
Keywords: Shareholder activism, Value creation, Passive investors, Stock picking, 
Structural estimation.
JEL Classifications: C34, G14, G34
Rui Albuquerque*
Professor of Finance and Haub Family Faculty Fellow
Boston College, Carroll School of Management
140 Commonwealth Avenue
Chustnut Hill, MA 02467, United States
phone: +1 617 552 2825
e-mail: rui.albuquerque@bc.edu
Vyacheslav Fos
Associate Professor of Finance
Boston College, Carroll School of Management
140 Commonwealth Avenue
Chestnut Hill, MA 02467, United States
phone: +1 617 552 1536
e-mail: fos@bc.edu
Enrique J. Schroth
Professor of Finance, CEPR
EDHEC Business School
393, Promenade Des Anglais
Nice 06202, France
phone: +33 493 186 939
e-mail: enrique.schroth@edhec.edu
*Corresponding Author
Value Creation in Shareholder Activism:
A Structural Approach $
Rui Albuquerque
Carroll School of Management, Boston College
Vyacheslav Fos
Carroll School of Management, Boston College
Enrique Schroth
EDHEC Business School
July 8, 2020
$We have beneﬁted from comments by Wei Jiang and participants at the Boston College brown bag lunch
seminar. We also thank Inyoung Cho for excellent research assistance. Rui Albuquerque: Boston College,
ECGI, CEPR, rui.albuquerque@bc.edu. Slava Fos: Boston College, ECGI, CEPR, fos@bc.edu. Enrique
Schroth: EDHEC Business School, CEPR, enrique.schroth@edhec.edu.
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Value Creation in Shareholder Activism:
A Structural Approach
Abstract
We model an investor’s choice between ﬁling Schedules 13D and 13G and use the model
to estimate expected returns to activist and passive investing. Using the model, we
decompose average Schedule 13D ﬁling announcement returns into treatment (75 .2%),
stock picking (12.2%), and sample selection components (12.6%).The treatment component
of Schedule 13D announcement returns predicts improvements in ﬁrm performance and
a lower probability of a proxy contest, suggesting that our estimate of the treatment
component identiﬁes more eﬀective activism campaigns. Counterfactual analysis shows
that if all investors shared the private cost of activism, a large fraction of Schedule 13G
ﬁlings would have been ﬁled as Schedule 13D, resulting in substantial ﬁrm value gains.
JEL classiﬁcation: C34, G14, G34
Keywords: Shareholder activism, Value creation, Passive investors, Stock picking, Struc-
tural estimation.
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
“Two roads diverged in a yellow wood,
And sorry I could not travel both...”
Robert Frost, The Road Not Taken
1. Introduction
Activist shareholders play an important role in modern corporate governance (Gillan
and Starks, 2007). A key question is how much value they create. The existing literature
searches for answers in the abnormal stock returns observed around the announcements
of new activist positions. The consensus is that these returns are signiﬁcantly larger than
those following the announcement of new passive positions (e.g., Holderness and Sheehan,
1985; Brav, Jiang, Partnoy and Thomas, 2008; Klein and Zur, 2009; Edmans, Fang and
Zur, 2013). Indeed, in our data, the average announcement return is 6.34% for Schedule
13D ﬁlings but only 0.59% for Schedule 13G ﬁlings. 1
Which aspects of activism could potentially explain why the stock market rewards
activist positions with higher announcement returns than passive positions? First, activist
investors may indeed increase value by inﬂuencing the ﬁrm’s corporate policies, i.e., the
treatment eﬀect of activism. Second, activist investors could be better at identifying
undervalued stocks. That is, part of the returns to a Schedule 13D ﬁling announcement
would have been observed anyway had the investor counterfactually chosen to remain
passive and ﬁled a Schedule 13G instead. To wit, Brav et al. (2008) document that a
stated goal of 48.3% of activist campaigns is “General undervaluation/maximize shareholder
value,” suggesting that a fraction of the announcement return could be due to stock picking.
Finally, because the investor strategically chooses to be an activist or to remain passive,
the observed average announcement return includes a sample selection bias.
1The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) mandates investors that become beneﬁciary owners
of at least 5% of any class of equity securities in a publicly traded company to ﬁle one of these Schedules.
Schedule 13D is required if the investor intends to aﬀect the management of the company (i.e. activist
investor). Otherwise, the investor can ﬁle a shorter form—Schedule 13G—associated with passive investing.
1
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
There are several challenges to measure these three components of the Schedule
13D announcement return. The investor’s ﬁling decision is endogenous and depends on
unobservable quantities such as the expected returns to ﬁling Schedule 13D versus ﬁling
Schedule 13G and the private costs of activism. In addition, the distributions of observed
announcement returns for either type of ﬁling schedule are each censored by the choice of
the other type. It is hard to ﬁnd good instruments for the unobservable components or get
data on the non-censored distribution of announcement returns. In this paper, we propose
to overcome these challenges and recover the three components of announcement returns
with the structural estimation of an economic model of ﬁling choices.
The central feature of our model is the investor’s decision to ﬁle a Schedule 13D versus
a Schedule 13G. The assumption that investors have that choice for every ﬁling in the data
is grounded on the observation that among all investors that ﬁled at least one Schedule
13D any time in our sample, 78% also ﬁled a Schedule 13G. 2 To choose optimally between
Schedule 13D versus Schedule 13G, the investor trades oﬀ the expected announcement
return to the former, minus a private cost of activism, against the expected announcement
return to the latter. We allow for due diligence by the investor, which introduces noise
in the ﬁling decision that is uncorrelated with announcement returns. This simple model
produces a joint distribution of ﬁling choices and announcement returns. The distribution
of announcement returns to Schedule 13D ﬁlings is censored because announcement returns
to 13D are not observed if the investor chooses to ﬁle Schedule 13G, giving rise to a sample
selection bias in returns to both Schedule 13D and Schedule 13G ﬁlings that we can estimate.
Using data on announcement returns and ﬁling choices, we can estimate the unobservable
quantities—expected returns, due diligence precision, and private cost of activism—but
also each of the components in Schedule 13D announcement returns.
2Several papers have looked at the choice between active and passive strategies. For example, Edmans
et al. (2013) study activist hedge funds and show that stock liquidity predicts ﬁling Schedule 13D versus
Schedule 13G. Giglia (2016) discusses incentives to ﬁle Schedule 13G versus Schedule 13D.
2
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
We estimate the model’s parameters by deriving and maximizing the joint likelihood
of ﬁling choices and announcement returns. As a result, our maximum likelihood
(ML) estimator of the characteristic loadings on expected returns satisﬁes a modiﬁed
orthogonality condition, one that is similar to that of the Ordinary Least Squares (OLS)
regression of announcement returns on characeristics — that the residual is orthogonal
to the regressors — but corrected for sample selection. Moreover, the sample selection
correction is itself a function of the characteristic loadings because these determine the
ﬁling choices besides explaining announcement returns. Our estimator exploits the same
model structure to recover the cost of activism: we show that the ML estimate of this cost
trades oﬀ the relative amounts of selection in the subsamples of each ﬁling type.
We ﬁnd that the average treatment eﬀect of activism, which is equal to the diﬀerence
in expected returns from ﬁling Schedule 13D instead of Schedule 13G, represents 75 .2% of
the observed Schedule 13D announcement return, that is, 4.77% of 6.34%. The estimated
average stock picking component, which is given by the estimated counterfactual expected
return from ﬁling Schedule 13G instead, amounts to 12 .2% of the observed announcement
return, that is, 0.77% of 6.34%. The estimated average stock picking component of Schedule
13D announcement return is indeed higher than the average announcement return for
Schedule 13G ﬁlings, 0.59%, suggesting that Schedule 13D ﬁlers are better stock pickers than
Schedule 13G ﬁlers. The economic magnitude of the diﬀerence, 0.18%, explains only a small
fraction of the diﬀerence between Schedule 13D and 13G announcement returns. Finally,
the sample selection component, which results from the left censoring of the distribution
of expected returns to Schedule 13D ﬁlings and, therefore, increases average announcement
returns above their unconditional mean, represents 12 .6% of announcement returns. For
Schedule 13G ﬁlings, the sample selection bias is small and stock picking accounts for almost
all of the observed announcement return.
We cannot reject that our speciﬁcation of expected returns does not explain the joint
3
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
variation in ﬁling choices and announcement returns. Moreover, our estimates indicate
that the model-implied variation in expected returns is a ﬁrst-order driving primitive of
variation in the outcome variables. Indeed, our model best ﬁts the data by loading most
heavily on expected returns variation instead of variation from the noise in the ﬁler’s due
diligence.
Another result is that all determinants of expected returns that are not related to the
investor’s experience have the same estimated loading on expected returns to Schedule 13D
ﬁlings and to Schedule 13G ﬁlings, even though the model places no such restrictions on
their values. This ﬁnding is important because it implies that the market assigns an extra
return to Schedule 13D ﬁlings vis-a-vis Schedule 13G ﬁlings based only on the identity
of the investor, not the target ﬁrm characteristics. That is, the treatment component of
announcement returns is determined only by the investors’ ﬁling experience. Speciﬁcally,
we ﬁnd that an investor with a higher number of past Schedule 13D ﬁlings is compensated
with a higher return for ﬁling Schedule 13D, but penalized with lower announcement returns
for ﬁling a Schedule 13G. Conversely, a more frequent Schedule 13G ﬁler is more negatively
aﬀected when ﬁling a Schedule 13D.
The result above has two further implications. First, investors with little Schedule 13D
ﬁling experience will not earn higher announcement returns from ﬁling a Schedule 13D if
their intentions are to remain passive: past 13D ﬁlings serve as a signal of commitment
that the activist will stick around after the price jump at announcement. Second, the stock
picking component is determined mostly by ﬁrm characteristics. In particular, we ﬁnd that
expected returns to both Schedule 13D and Schedule 13G ﬁlings are positively associated
with stock illiquidity and book-to-market of equity, and negatively associated with sales
growth and stock return performance, i.e. suggestive of stock-picking strategies.
We quantify the beneﬁts of activism to investors and dispersed shareholders. We
estimate that the mean Schedule 13D ﬁler earns a net return of 1 .74%. Dispersed
4
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
shareholders save the costs and, therefore, enjoy higher returns from Schedule 13D ﬁlings.
However, our estimates also suggests that 60% of Schedule 13G ﬁlings would oﬀer better
counterfactual expected returns under Schedule 13D. According to our estimates, these
Schedule 13G ﬁlings occur because the treatment eﬀect is not enough to cover the private
cost of activism. But if the cost of activism were shared amongst all shareholders, then
the estimated aggregate net increase in ﬁrm valuations, from ﬁling Schedule 13D instead,
would be $60 billion on average per year.
To validate the cross equation restrictions that tie the variation in expected returns
to both ﬁling choices and announcement returns imposed by our model, we compare its
performance to reduced-form approaches used in the activism literature. To our knowledge,
researchers to date have only used reduced-form models of ﬁling choices (e.g., probit models)
or announcement returns (e.g., OLS regressions) ignoring the information content of either
on the other. That is, such reduced-form models do not impose constraints tying cross-
sectional variation in announcement returns to cross sectional variation in ﬁling choices. We
show that the structural model is just as good as the reduced-form models at matching the
ﬁrst and second moments of announcement returns, but is signiﬁcantly better at matching
the distribution of ﬁling choices. We also compare our model with the two-step Heckman
approach that introduces an ad hoc correlation between announcement returns and ﬁling
probabilities. We show that our structural model remains signiﬁcantly better than the
two-step Heckman approach at matching the distribution of ﬁling choices.
A critical assumption in our exercise is that announcement returns to Schedule 13D
ﬁlings reﬂect, albeit noisily, shareholders’ anticipated value creation by activists. Because
our model-inferred components of announcement returns are not part of the noise, we
hypothesize that they would subsume or improve the informational content about the target
ﬁrm’s future performance. Speciﬁcally, we test whether the estimated treatment eﬀect
predicts subsequent improvements in ﬁrm performance over and above the information
5
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
in the total announcement return. We ﬁnd that both the treatment and stock-picking
components of expected returns to Schedule 13D ﬁlings positively predict improvements in
ROA and sales turnover above the information content in announcement returns. Moreover,
the treatment component of expected returns to Schedule 13D ﬁlings negatively predicts
the likelihood of a proxy contest, suggesting that a higher estimate of treatment identiﬁes
more eﬀective activism campaigns that do not need to escalate into a proxy contest.
One potential concern about the quality of our estimates is that, because our sample
consists of a heterogeneous collection of investors, the results may be driven by the type
least likely to satisfy our model assumptions. In an important robustness test, we perform
the analysis in the sub-sample of 7,551 Schedule 13D and 13G ﬁlings ﬁled by activist hedge
funds. This sub-sample represents ﬁlings that are ﬁled by a relatively homogenous group
of investors who most likely represent the behavior in the model. We obtain similar results
when we reestimate the model only in this sub-sample: the treatment eﬀect represents
92.4% of the observed announcement return, the stock picking component represents −4%
of the observed announcement return, and the sample selection component represents 11.6%
of announcement returns.
Our paper contributes to several strands of the literature on shareholder activism. First,
our paper contributes to the literature that studies stock price reactions to announcements
of shareholder activism campaigns (e.g. Holderness and Sheehan, 1985; Guercio and
Hawkins, 1999; Brav et al., 2008; Becht et al., 2008; Cliﬀord, 2008; Klein and Zur, 2009). 3
Holderness and Sheehan (1985) are the ﬁrst to demonstrate positive abnormal returns to
Schedule 13D ﬁlings. They reject the hypothesis that activist investors are corporate raiders
and instead suggest that the evidence is consistent with value creation and stock picking.
Brav et al. (2008) study activism campaigns initiated by hedge funds using Schedule 13D
ﬁlings. They also document positive abnormal returns to campaign announcements. This
3See Brav et al. (2010) for a survey of evidence on hedge fund activism.
6
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
paper contributes to this literature by quantifying the various components in expected
returns to Schedule 13D ﬁlings.
Second, our paper contributes to the literature that studies changes in corporate policies
following shareholder activism (e.g. Brav et al., 2008, 2015; Bebchuk et al., 2015). 4 For
instance, Brav et al. (2008) describe the rate of success by activists in achieving their goals
and actual policy changes of target ﬁrms. Brav et al. (2015) and Bebchuk et al. (2015)
focus on long term changes in productivity of target ﬁrms. This paper contributes to this
literature by showing that Schedule 13D ﬁlings with higher treatment component of the
announcement return experience larger improvements in ﬁrm performance as well as lower
likelihood of a proxy contest.
Third, our paper informs the literature about costs of activist engagements. Gantchev
(2013) uses a structural model of the sequential decision process in activist campaigns and
estimates that a campaign can costs several millions dollars. Contrary to Gantchev (2013),
we show that activist expected returns net of the cost of activism are large and positive on
average. This evidence coupled with the estimated loadings on investor-based experience
variables suggest that there are limits to free entry in the market for activism. Our analysis
also allows us to go a step further, allowing us to quantify the gains from sharing the cost
of activism amongst all shareholders by predicting the fraction of Schedule 13G ﬁlings that
would instead be ﬁled as Schedule 13D. Our identiﬁcation strategy diﬀers from that of
Gantchev (2013). We use the joint distribution of announcement returns and ﬁling choices
to identify the cost of activism, whereas Gantchev (2013) infers the cost of activism from
the activists’ staged decisions along a campaign.
Finally, our paper is the ﬁrst to use structural estimation to quantify value creation in
shareholder activism.5 Beginning with Brav et al. (2015), the literature relies on activists
4See also Greenwood and Schor (2009), Boyson et al. (2017), and Jiang et al. (2018) for the analysis of
the role of activist hedge funds in corporate takeovers.
5In the M&A literature, Li et al. (2018) develop a structural model to evaluate the role of mispricing
and economic synergies in takeovers. Albuquerque and Schroth (2010, 2015) study value creation in block
7
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
that switch from a passive Schedule 13G ﬁling to a Schedule 13D ﬁling on the same target
ﬁrm to separate value creation from stock picking. The key idea is that the value from
stock picking is obtained when Schedule 13G is ﬁled, and the value of treatment is identiﬁed
with the announcement return when the investor switches to Schedule 13D. Our structural
model builds on this insight but also uses the information from actual Schedule 13G ﬁlings
to inform the counterfactual gains to a Schedule 13D ﬁling, with the added beneﬁt of a
large sample to conduct the analysis. Importantly, our approach allows for ﬁrm and investor
characteristics to change between the Schedule 13G and the consequent Schedule 13D ﬁling.
That is, in our model the stock picking component obtained when Schedule 13G is ﬁled can
change by the time the consequent Schedule 13D is ﬁled.
2. A Structural Model of the Filing Decision
We model an investor’s decision to ﬁle Schedule 13D or Schedule 13G and the stock
price reaction to the announcement. The model predicts a joint distribution of ﬁlings and
announcement returns where the driving force in explained variation of the relation between
ﬁling choices and announcement returns are expected returns.
2.1. Valuation gains
Consider an investor that has identiﬁed a target ﬁrm as an investment opportunity and
has acquired a stake in order to beneﬁt from the stock’s valuation gains. 6 We denote by
∆D the random variable that describes the return following the announcement that the
investor ﬁled Schedule 13D, and denote by ∆ G the random variable that describes the
return following the announcement that the investor ﬁled Schedule 13G. We interpret the
former as the gains from a potentially costly intervention campaign, and the later as the
transactions.
6We take the stake size as given and focus on the activist’s choice to be an active or a passive investor.
Back, Collin-Dufresne, Fos, Li and Ljungqvist (2018) provide a model of an activist’s trading behavior and
study the trade oﬀ between the impact of activist investors on ﬁrm value and market liquidity.
8
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
gains from picking underpriced stocks. These are public valuation gains that beneﬁt every
investor in the ﬁrm.
Valuation gains are given by ∆ D = µD +ϵ∆D and ∆G = µG +ϵ∆G. One component
of valuation gains is the expected return represented by µD and µG. These expected
returns are common knowledge among investors. The other, unpredictable, component is
represented by independent normal error terms, ϵ∆D∼ N(0,σ 2
∆D) and ϵ∆G∼ N(0,σ 2
∆G).
This information is summarized by the normal density functions fD (∆D) and fG (∆G),
respectively.
In this setup, if µG> 0, then ﬁling a Schedule 13G results in an expected price increase
that beneﬁts all investors. If µD >µ G, then ﬁling a Schedule 13D results in higher expected
returns than ﬁling a Schedule 13G. Our model is silent about how the valuation gains come
about. Instead, we will adopt a parametric linear mapping of observable ﬁrm and investor
characteristics to expected returns, conditional on the ﬁling choice.
2.2. Investor’s due diligence
The investor does not observe ∆ D or ∆G before the ﬁling. However, she conducts due
diligence on the target ﬁrm before making her ﬁling decision. The due diligence results in
private information signals,
sD = ∆ D +εsD,
sG = ∆ G +εsG.
The errors in the signals are independent normal, εsD∼N
(
0,σ 2
sD
)
and εsG∼N
(
0,σ 2
sG
)
.
By letting σ2
sD and σ2
sG diﬀer, we let the precision of the signals vary by ﬁling type.
Using the projection theorem, we obtain the investor’s mean and variance of returns
9
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
conditional on the value of her signal:
E (∆D|sD) = µD +
σ2
∆D
σ2
∆D +σ2sD
(sD−µD),
V (∆D|sD) =
σ2
∆Dσ2
sD
σ2
∆D +σ2sD
.
Similar formulas can be derived for E (∆G|sG) and V (∆G|sG). The ratio σ2
∆D/σ2
sD is
the signal-to-noise ratio. A larger ratio σ2
∆D/σ2
sD implies that the investor puts a greater
weight on the signal when computingE (∆D|sD). This ratio regulates the signal’s usefulness
relative to the unconditional mean of µD in the investor’s ﬁling choice.
2.3. Investor’s ﬁling choice
Activism campaigns are costly. They involve eﬀort spent in aﬀecting control in the
ﬁrm as well as of proxy advisory and legal expenses (Gantchev, 2013). Let C denote the
expected value of these costs. We expect C > 0, but because the investor chooses to ﬁle
Schedule 13D versus Schedule 13G, the costC should be viewed as net of any costs involved
in ﬁling Schedule 13G. Below, we provide further discussion on the cost C. This cost is
borne only by the investor and not shared with other shareholders of the target ﬁrm.
We assume that the investor is risk neutral and seeks to maximize her expected returns
form ﬁling either Schedule 13D or Schedule 13G. 7 The investor’s expected utilities under
each ﬁling alternative are
EUD =E (∆D|sD)−C,
and
EUG =E (∆G|sG).
7The model with risk aversion is developed in the Appendix.
10
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
The investor ﬁles a Schedule 13D if, and only if,
EUD >EU G. (1)
Otherwise, she ﬁles Schedule 13G. Moreover, EUD is given by
EUD = µD +
σ2
∆D
σ2
∆D +σ2sD
(sD−µD)−C, (2)
= µD +
σ2
∆D
σ2
∆D +σ2sD
(ϵ∆D +ϵsD)−C. (3)
The expression for EUG is similar, with subindices G instead of D, but no cost, C.
Equation (3) shows that the expected utility of ﬁling Schedule 13D can be decomposed
into the predictable component of the announcement return net of the cost of activism,
µD−C, and the unpredictable component, ϵ∆D +ϵsD. Moreover, the weight placed on the
latter is determined by the signal-to-noise ratio, σ2
∆D/σ2
sD. Intuitively, we build the model
to test the extent to which variation in expected returns explains ﬁling choices. However,
we allow for alternative explanatory variation through the unpredictable noise components.
The signal-to-noise ratio calibrates the tension between the two explanations.
2.4. Properties of announcement returns from the econometrician’s perspective
We assume the econometrician does not observe the due-diligence signals, sD or sG,
but knows the normal densities of returns, fD (∆D) and fG (∆G). Let the random variable
z≡EUD−EUG. From the perspective of the econometrician, z∼N (E (z),V (z)), with
E (z) = µD−µG−C, (4)
V (z) =
σ4
∆D
σ2
∆D +σ2sD
+
σ4
∆G
σ2
∆G +σ2sG
. (5)
11
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Further, the econometrician equates the event “Filing Schedule 13D” with the event
{z >0}, and, likewise, the event “Filing Schedule 13G” with the event {z≤ 0}.
The econometrician infers that the observed returns to any Schedule 13D ﬁling are not
distributed with density fD (∆D) because the econometrician only observes realizations
of ∆ D for which z > 0. Indeed, the econometrician computes the posterior density
of announcement returns to a Schedule 13D ﬁling as the density of ∆ D conditional on
{zi> 0}. Following Arnold, Beaver, Groeneveld and Meeker (1983), the conditional density,
fD (∆D|zi> 0), satisﬁes
fD (∆D|zi> 0)
fD (∆D) = 1− Φ (αD)
1− Φ (α) . (6)
In this expression, α = −E (z)/
√
V (z) and Φ is the cumulative standard normal
distribution. Hence, 1 − Φ (α) is the unconditional probability of ﬁling Schedule 13D.
Also, αD =−E (z|∆D)/
√
V (z|∆D) andt 1− Φ (αD) is the probability of ﬁling Schedule
13D conditional on the observed announcement return. Finally,
E (z|∆D) = E (z) +
σ2
∆D
σ2
∆D +σ2sD
(∆D−µD),
V (z|∆D) = V (z)
(
1−ρ2
zD
)
,
for ρzD =Cov (∆D,z )/
√
σ2
∆DV (z)> 0.
It is straightforward to check that the right hand side of (6) is an increasing function
of ∆D that equals zero when ∆ D→−∞ , and equals 1/ (1− Φ (α))≥ 1 when ∆D→∞ .
That is, higher value gains are more likely under the conditional distribution for Schedule
13D ﬁlings than under the unconditional distribution.
We use equation (6) to derive a familiar expression for the mean observed announcement
12
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
return following a Schedule 13D ﬁling (see Greene (2008) and Arnold et al. (1983)): 8
E (∆D|z >0) =µD +ρzDσ∆DλD (α), (7)
where λD (α)≡φ (α)/ (1− Φ (α)) is the inverse Mills ratio, and φ is the standard normal
density function. This expression shows that the ex post average return to ﬁling Schedule
13D ﬁling is higher that the unconditional mean, µD. This result obtains because investors
expecting low returns from ﬁling a Schedule 13D choose instead to ﬁle a Schedule 13G.
The sampling distribution of announcement returns to Schedule 13D ﬁlings is therefore
truncated. Its mean is biased upwards by an amount proportional to the inverse Mills
ratio.
The conditional variance of the announcement return is
V (∆D|z >0) =σ2
∆D
[
1−ρ2
zDλD (α) (λD (α)−α)
]
. (8)
Since 0 < λD (α) (λD (α)−α) < 1, then V (∆D|z >0) < V (∆D), i.e., the variance
of announcement returns is biased downwards. Combining the last two results, sample
selection in Schedule 13D ﬁlings creates an upward bias on empirical t-statistics of average
announcement returns.
8Similar expressions can be obtained for moments of the random variable ∆ G|z <0:
E (∆G|z <0) =µG−ρzGσ∆GλG (α),
and
V (∆G|z <0) =σ2
∆G
[
1−ρ2
zGλG (α) (λG (α) +α)
]
,
where ρzG = Cov (∆G,z )/
√
σ2
∆GV (z), and λG (α) = φ (α)/Φ (α), with α =−E (z)/
√
V (z) as before.
Note that ρzG < 0. Hence, the mean announcement return is higher than the unconditional mean return
for Schedule 13G ﬁlings as well.
13
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
2.5. Announcement returns decomposition
Using equation (7), we decompose announcement returns to Schedule 13D ﬁlings into
three components:
E (∆D|z >0) = µD−µG  
Treatment
eﬀect
+ µG
Stock picking
eﬀect
+ ρzDσ∆DλD (α)  
Sample selection
eﬀect
. (9)
The stock picking eﬀect is the return the investor gets by ﬁling Schedule 13G and remaining
passive,µG. The value creation or treatment eﬀect, µD−µG, is the added beneﬁt of ﬁling
Schedule 13D versus ﬁling Schedule 13G. The last term in the decomposition is the sample
selection eﬀect described above. Note that the estimation of the stock picking and treatment
eﬀects requires knowledge of the counterfactual valuation, µG.
Likewise, we decompose announcement returns to Schedule 13G ﬁlings as
E (∆G|z <0) = µG
Stock picking
eﬀect
− ρzGσ∆GλG (α)  
Selection selection
eﬀect
. (10)
The sample selection bias in announcement returns to Schedule 13G ﬁlings is also positive
because investors do not ﬁle a Schedule 13G when µG is suﬃciently low relative to µD.
2.6. Discussion
The activism cost parameter, C, has a central role in the model. As we explain
below, this cost helps explain ﬁling choices, ﬁling announcement returns, and volatilities of
announcement returns. As a parameter, it captures various aspects of activism. First, it
represents expected pecuniary costs of aﬀecting control as indicated in subsection 2.3.
Second,C includes also the disutility from the risk in announcement returns and in the
14
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
due diligence signals. The Appendix shows that the model in the main text is isomorphic
to a model with risk averse investors if we adjust the cost parameter appropriately. Third,
C may also include a penalty for the possibility that some Schedule 13Ds are ﬁled only in
order to enjoy the larger average announcement returns with no actual intentions to engage
in activism. In our tests, we can address this possibility by including, in the set of expected
return determinants, investor-speciﬁc variables that track the number of times the investor
has ﬁled either Schedules in the past. We return to this topic below.
Fourth, the activist investor may enjoy private beneﬁts from her large stake (Coﬀee,
2017). Then, C should be viewed as the activism cost net of these private beneﬁts. Fifth,
there are transaction costs to accumulating a large stake in a company. For instance, buying
towards a 5% target is likely to cause upward price pressure before reaching it and ﬁling
with the SEC. Hence, Schedule 13D and Schedule 13G ﬁlers are unlikely to capture all the
value they create, implying that C may include the diﬀerence, if any, between the expected
transaction costs in acquiring a position towards a Schedule 13D or a Schedule 13G ﬁling.
It remains unclear, however, whether a transaction costs diﬀerential would exist, unless
the market not only forecasts the intention to cross the 5% threshold that triggers either
Schedule 13D or 13G ﬁling, but also the type of ﬁling.
We assume that C is constant across all ﬁlings in the data. One reason for this
assumption is the lack of proxies for these potential individual cost components. The main
reason, though, is to keep the model parsimonious. This assumption allows us to focus on
the role of expected returns as the ﬁrst order eﬀect in explaining the cross section of ﬁlings.
Ultimately, the performance of the model in explaining the data is a good indication the
signiﬁcance of treating C constant.
To conclude the model section, let us address further why we believe the model is
parsimonious. To be clear, the model has two parameters, mean and volatility, for each of
the distributions of announcement returns. These parameters would be needed by almost
15
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
all models of returns. In addition, the model has three more parameters, the cost C and the
two volatilities of the due diligence σ2
sD and σ2
sG. The cost parameter has been extensively
discussed above. The volatilities on due diligence are important because they allow for a
source of noise that aﬀects selection that is unrelated to returns.
3. Estimation Approach
Our main identifying assumption is that each ﬁling choice and the price reaction to its
announcement are jointly determined as a function of the announcement’s expected return.
In this section, we construct the likelihood function that results from our model and that
captures the main identifying assumption.
3.1. Speciﬁcation of expected returns
We assume that the expected returns from ﬁling either a Schedule 13D or a Schedule
13G vary cross sectionally as a function of given target ﬁrm and investor characteristics.
We specify the expected returns,µD,i andµG,i for each ﬁlingi = 1,...,N , as linear functions
of a vector of ﬁxed determinants xi,
µDi = x′
iβD,
and
µGi = x′
iβG,
where βD and βG are parameters to estimate.
Our model is silent about which characteristics inﬂuence expected returns and why.
We therefore resort to a large literature modeling expected stock returns. The target ﬁrm
characteristics included in xi are ﬁnancial leverage, book-to-market value of equity, return
on assets, stock illiquidity, analyst coverage, share of institutional ownership, idiosyncratic
volatility of stock returns, recent stock return performance, size, ﬁrm age, sales growth,
16
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
and industry sales concentration. All variables are measured as of the end of the ﬁscal year
that precedes the ﬁling and are deﬁned in Table 1. Potentially unbounded variables are
winsorized at 1% and 99% for every year in our sample.
The vector xi also includes two measures of the investor’s past experience in either
Schedule 13D or Schedule 13G ﬁlings. Speciﬁcally, we include the number of previous
Schedule 13D ﬁlings as well as the number of previous Schedule 13G ﬁlings by each
investor.9 An indicator variable for activist hedge funds completes the set of investor-
speciﬁc characteristics.10
Finally, the vector xi includes the three Fama-French factors. The reason for this
inclusion is that, even if the stock’s cumulative abnormal returns are measured in excess
of the three factors, the adjustment uses backward looking loadings (betas). Controlling
for these factors on top of the adjustment accounts for the possibility that their loadings
on the ﬁrm’s expected returns may have changed in response to the news of the SEC ﬁling
(Patton and Verardo, 2012).
3.2. Likelihood function
Letli = 1 if the investor ﬁles Schedule 13D and 0 if the investor ﬁles Schedule 13G. The
empirical counterpart to the valuation gains ∆ G and ∆D are the stock market cumulative
announcement returns from 30 days before the ﬁling to 10 days after the ﬁling, denoted by
ri. We begin the event window 30 days before the ﬁling because Collin-Dufresne and Fos
(2015) show that price appreciation prior to Schedule 13D ﬁlings likely reﬂects the price
impact of activist’s trades. We end the event window 10 days after the ﬁlling to make sure
prices fully reﬂect the information about the ﬁling. Indeed, Brav et al. (2008) show that
there is no signiﬁcant return reversal during the year subsequent to the ﬁling. Cumulative
9Brav et al. (2008) use the historical average announcement returns from past ﬁlings as a proxy for a
hedge fund’s experience, but ﬁnd no signiﬁcant association between the proxy and abnormal announcement
returns.
10We thank Wei Jiang for providing the list of activist hedge funds.
17
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
abnormal announcement returns thus measured are a good proxy for valuation gains. The
data available to the econometrician is therefore {li,ri, xi}i=1,...,N.
The likelihood of observing N independent Schedule 13D or Schedule 13G ﬁlings in the
data and the corresponding announcement returns is
L({li,ri}i=1,...,N|{ xi}i=1,...,N, θ)
= ΠN
i=1
(
[Pr (zi> 0)fD (ri|zi> 0)]li [Pr (zi< 0)fG (ri|zi< 0)]1−li
)
,
where the parameter vector to be estimated is θ =
{
βD, βG,C,σ 2
∆D,σ 2
∆G,σ 2
sD,σ 2
sG
}
,
Pr (zi> 0)fD (∆D|zi> 0) is the joint density of observing a Schedule 13D ﬁling and the
announcement returns ∆D, and Pr (zi> 0) = 1− Φ (αi).
Substituting (6) in the likelihood function, taking logarithms and rewriting as a function
of the unknown parameters, we have
lnL
(
θ|{li,ri, xi}i=1,...,N
)
=
N∑
i=1
[li (lnfD (ri) + ln (1− Φ (αDi))) + (1−li) (lnfG (ri) + ln Φ (αGi))].
The maximum likelihood (ML) estimator ˆθML maximizes lnL
(
θ|{li,ri, xi}i=1,...,N
)
.
3.3. Parameter identiﬁcation
In this section, we explain the identiﬁcation of parameters and which features of the
data drive the value of the estimates obtained via the the system of ML’s ﬁrst order
optimality conditions. Intuitively, the identiﬁcation strategy uses the assumption that the
announcement return following a Schedule 13G ﬁling is useful to estimate the counterfactual
expected return to a Schedule 13D ﬁling, and vice-versa. That is, expected returns extracted
from announcements of Schedule 13G ﬁlings must vary with ﬁrm and investor characteristics
in a way that is consistent with the investor preferring to ﬁle Schedule 13D versus Schedule
18
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
13G every time expected returns to the former (net of the activism cost) dominate the
later. “The road not taken” is informative about the path the investor ultimately chooses.
3.3.1. Expected return loadings, βD and βG
Consider the ﬁrst order conditions of the ML problem with respect to the sensitivities
ˆβD. After some simpliﬁcation, we obtain
N∑
i=1
lixi
[(
ri− x′
i ˆβD
)
− ˆσD ˆρzDλD (ˆαDi)
]
= 0. (11)
There are two terms to consider. The ﬁrst term in the square bracket would give the OLS
estimation of ˆβD in a linear regression of returns, ri, on characteristics, xi. OLS requires
that the estimation residuals, ri− x′
i ˆβD, be orthogonal to the regressors, xi. Now consider
the second term. The ML estimator of the structural model chooses ˆβD considering also
its impact on the probability the investor ﬁles Schedule 13D. This feature explains the
presence of an inverse Mills ratio, λD (ˆαDi), which corrects for the non-random selection
of the Schedule 13D sample. In other words, in the structural model, the orthogonality
condition is written with respect to the residuals that take into account selection, i.e. the
endogenous choice of ﬁling type. This statement can be made formally. Using equation (7),
x′
i ˆβD + ˆσD ˆρzDλD (ˆαDi) is the predicted mean announcement return given that the investor
ﬁled a Schedule 13D, i.e., ˆE (∆D,i|z >0). Hence, we may write equation (11) as
N∑
i=1
lixi
(
ri− ˆE (∆Di|z >0)
)
= 0.
Solving for ˆβD, we obtain
ˆβD =
( N∑
i=1
lixix′
i
)−1 N∑
i=1
lixi (ri− ˆσD ˆρzDλD (ˆαDi)). (12)
19
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Hence, target ﬁrm and investor characteristics that are associated with higher selection-
adjusted returns carry higher loadings.
There is another diﬀerence between the structural and OLS estimation of ˆβD. The
solution to equation (12) is nonlinear because the selection term also depends on ˆβD.11
Intuitively, the expected return parameters have a dual role in the model: to explain the
likelihood of Schedule 13D ﬁlings in the cross section as well as cross sectional variation in
announcement returns to Schedule 13D ﬁlings. This non-linearity illustrates how the model
imposes constraints about how the outcome variables—ﬁling choices and announcement
returns—are related to each other and to the determinants, x.
We omit the discussion of the identiﬁcation of ˆβG because the system of ﬁrst order
conditions with respect to this parameter vector is isomorphic to that with respect to ˆβD.
3.3.2. Activism cost, C
Consider now the ﬁrst order condition with respect to ˆC. Assuming an interior solution,
this condition simpliﬁes to
N∑
i=1
(
li
λD (ˆαDi)√
V (z|∆D)
− (1−li) λG (ˆαGi)√
V (z|∆G)
)
= 0. (13)
The cost ˆC equates the average selection eﬀect, i.e., the inverse Mills ratios, across all
Schedule 13D and Schedule 13G ﬁlings weighted by their conditional variances V (z|∆D)
and V (z|∆G), respectively. In the structural model, a marginal increase in ˆC forces the
investor to be more selective in choosing her Schedule 13D ﬁlings. By symmetry, the
marginal increase in ˆC makes ﬁling Schedule 13G more likely, which decreases the amount
of selection in Schedule 13G ﬁlings. In other words, our model and estimation strategy
would infer a higher ˆC from an otherwise equal dataset with a lower proportion of Schedule
11While ˆβD enters ˆαDi, it is easy to show that the right hand side of this expression is monotonically
decreasing in ˆβD. Hence, ˆβD is uniquely identiﬁed.
20
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
13D ﬁlings, or an otherwise equal dataset with a higher diﬀerence between Schedule 13D
and 13G average announcement returns.
3.3.3. Variance parameters
The ﬁrst order condition with respect to ˆσ2
∆D can be written as
ˆσ2
∆D = 1
ND
N∑
i=1
li (ri− ˆµDi)2−
2ˆσ4
∆D
ND
N∑
i=1
(
liλD (ˆαDi) dαDi
dˆσ2
∆D
− (1−li)λG (ˆαGi) dαGi
dˆσ2
∆D
)
,
(14)
where ND is the number of Schedule 13D ﬁlings. Under the assumption that ∆ D,i ∼
N
(
x′
iβD,σ 2
∆D
)
, the ﬁrst term of the right-hand side of this expression is the OLS estimate
of σ2
∆D. The second term in equation (14) recognizes that selection introduces conditional
heteroskedasticity in announcement returns (see Eq. (8)). The ﬁrst order condition
synthesizes the restrictions imposed by the structural model to back out an estimate of
the constant σ2
∆D from conditionally heteroskedastic announcement returns. A similar
conclusion applies to the estimate of σ2
∆G.
Consider last the ﬁrst order condition with respect to ˆσ2
sD,
N∑
i=1
[
liλD (ˆαDi)dαDi
dˆσ2sD
+ (1−li)λG (ˆαGi)dαGi
dˆσ2sD
]
= 0.
When ˆσ2
sD is small, the investor has valuable information via her due diligence about ∆ D
(i.e., the signal to noise ratio ˆσ2
∆D/ˆσ2
sD is high). In that case, the choice of ﬁling is more
aﬀected by randomness from the structural shocks than from cross sectional variation in
expected returns. Thus, ˆ σ2
sD helps control the source of variation in selection. At the
margin, an increase in ˆσ2
sD equates the marginal increase in selection in Schedule 13D ﬁlings
against the marginal decrease in selection in Schedule 13G ﬁlings. A similar conclusion
applies to ˆσ2
sG.
21
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
3.4. Structural vs reduced form estimation
We conclude this section with a formal illustration of the diﬀerence between the inference
made by structural estimation of our model and by previous reduced-form approaches to
the same data. Formally, let Pr (Filing 13D|x) =F (x′
iδ) be the model for ﬁling a Schedule
13D versus ﬁling Schedule 13G, with F (.) as the cumulative distribution function. Also,
let gD (ri; x′
iηD) be the density of returns to Schedule 13D ﬁlings with expected returns
x′
iηD, and gG (ri; x′
iηG) be the density of returns to Schedule 13G ﬁlings with expected
returns x′
iηG. Then, treating announcement returns and ﬁling choices independently as is
commonly done in the activism literature, the likelihood of the data set is
lnL
(
{li,ri}i=1,...,N|{ xi}i=1,...,N, δ, ηD, ηG
)
=
N∑
i=1
[
li ln
[
F
(
x′
iδ
)
gD
(
ri; x′
iηD
)]
+ (1−li) ln
[(
1−F
(
x′
iδ
))
gG
(
ri; x′
iηG
)]]
. (15)
Without any constraints across equations, the reduced-form approach likelihood
function can be separated into two, each with a distinct set of parameters: one for the ﬁling
choices, δ, and the other for announcement returns, ηD and ηG. Hence, the information
content in the announcement returns distribution does not contribute to improving the
performance of the ﬁling choices model.
Note too that, in principle, one could impose correlation between announcement returns
and ﬁling probabilities in a reduced-form model. Thus, estimation would use information
from both outcome variables to make inference about the two diﬀerent sets of parameters.
But this ad hoc approach would still not require restrictions across the parameters δ, ηD,
and ηG, so that a counterfactual analysis would be impossible. An example would be the
two-step Heckman estimator, in which a ﬁrst-stage ﬁling choice model is used to produce
the Inverse Mills ratio (IMR) that corrects for sample selection bias in the second-stage
22
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
returns model. This approach implies an expected returns expression similar to equation
(7) without the restriction that the IMR be evaluated at the model statistic αD, itself a
function of expected returns. We discuss in subsection 5.4 and tabulate in Appendix B
that, by ignoring this theoretical restriction, the two-step Heckman method understates
sample selection bias in mean returns of Schedule 13D ﬁlings, but overstates it for mean
returns of Schedule 13G ﬁlings.
Our structural model restrictions come mainly from the model primitive that the
investor ﬁles a Schedule 13D when she expects high returns to Schedule 13D ﬁlings. As
a result, estimation uses announcement returns data to predict ﬁling options and vice-
versa. These restrictions are useful not only to recover the parameters that are common
to both distributions, βD and βG, but also to recover the counterfactual quantities that
a reduced-form cannot: the treatment, the stock picking, and the selection components of
announcement returns. Section 5 compares the performance of the structural model to the
reduced form approach to validate the restrictions imposed by the former.
4. Data
Data are compiled from several sources. Stock returns, volume, and prices come from
the Center for Research in Security Prices (CRSP). Target ﬁrm characteristics come from
Compustat. Data on institutional ownership come from Thomson Reuters. Data on
Schedule 13D ﬁlings and Schedule 13G ﬁlings come from EDGAR and are described next.
First, we identify the universe of all Schedule 13D and Schedule 13G ﬁlings in EDGAR
from 1996 to 2017. The universe includes 50,708 Schedule 13D ﬁlings and 171,051 Schedule
13G ﬁlings. For each ﬁling, we extract the CUSIP of the underlying security and the ﬁling
date. Second, we drop duplicate ﬁlings, merge subject ﬁrms with the CRSP and Compustat
databases, requiring that data on stock returns be available. This step results in 23,391
Schedule 13D ﬁlings and 121,373 Schedule 13G ﬁlings.
23
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Third, we drop the 28,663 Schedule 13G ﬁlings that were ﬁled on February 14 (45 days
after calendar year-end) because this date indicates ﬁlings by exempt investors. Exempt
investors are not required to ﬁle within 10 days of crossing the 5% equity stake and can
ﬁle up to 45 days after calendar year-end. Hence, these ﬁlings are unlikely to carry any
informational content. Indeed, the average announcement return on Schedule 13G ﬁlings
ﬁled on February 14 is -0.08% (statistically indistinguishable from 0), whereas Schedule 13G
ﬁlings ﬁled on any other day experience an average 0.59% announcement return (highly
statistically signiﬁcant). Finally, we require ﬁrm characteristics used in the analysis to be
non-missing during the ﬁscal year that precedes the ﬁling.
[Tables 1 and 2 about here.]
The ﬁnal sample includes 69,937 ﬁlings, of which 8,703 are Schedule 13D ﬁlings and
61,234 are Schedule 13G ﬁlings. All variables are deﬁned in Table 1. Summary statistics
are reported in Table 2. Panel A shows that the average announcement return is 1.31%.
The price response to a ﬁling announcement varies substantially with the type of ﬁling.
Speciﬁcally, the average announcement return is 6.33% for Schedule 13D ﬁlings and 0.59%
for Schedule 13G ﬁlings. When we consider the sub-sample of ﬁlings done by activist hedge
funds, we ﬁnd that the average announcement return is 5.98% for Schedule 13D ﬁlings and
1.14% for Schedule 13G ﬁlings. As expected, activist hedge funds ﬁle Schedule 13D ﬁlings
more often than a typical investor. Speciﬁcally, Schedule 13D ﬁlings constitute about 34%
(5,012/7,551) of activist hedge funds’ ﬁlings and 12% (8,703/69,937) for all investors in
our sample. In section 7, we report the main results from our model estimated on the
sub-sample of activist hedge funds.
Panel B reports descriptive statistics of ﬁrm characteristics. Since most ﬁrm charac-
teristics are standard in the literature, we omit their discussion. Panel C reports three
investor characteristics. 13D Experience (13G Experience) is the number of Schedule 13D
(Schedule 13G) ﬁlings by each investor in the data up to the ﬁling date. In our sample,
24
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
the average investor ﬁled six Schedule 13D ﬁlings and 536.7 Schedule 13G ﬁlings. Most
investors have little experience with Schedule 13D ﬁlings. The median investor never ﬁled
a Schedule 13D prior to the current ﬁling, but ﬁled a Schedule 13G 62 times previously.
Untabulated results show, however, that about 78% of investors that have ﬁled a Schedule
13D have also ﬁled at least one Schedule 13G in the whole sample. This evidence suggests
that a typical Schedule 13D ﬁler is experienced with both Schedule 13D and Schedule 13G.
Finally, 10.8% of ﬁlers in our sample are activist hedge funds.
5. Estimation Results
Table 3 presents the estimates of our model parameters. We estimate the model under
four diﬀerent speciﬁcations of µD and µG. In speciﬁcation (1), we only include target ﬁrm
variables: Market capitalization, Amihud illiquidity, Analyst coverage, Book-to-market
equity, Firm age, Sales growth, HHI, Institutional ownership, Idiosyncratic volatility,
Leverage, ROA, and the average stock return of the last twelve months. Speciﬁcation
(2) adds the investor experience variables, speciﬁcation (3) adds a dummy variable for
activist hedge funds, and speciﬁcation (4) adds three stock return risk factors, the market
excess return, SMB, and HML.
[Table 3 about here.]
Panel A shows that the coeﬃcients on target ﬁrm variables in speciﬁcation (1) are
jointly signiﬁcantly diﬀerent from 0 with a p-value of the likelihood-ratio (LR) statistic
smaller than 0.001. Likelihood-ratio tests also reject the hypotheses that the coeﬃcients
of the investor’s ﬁling experience variables (speciﬁcation (2)), of the activist hedge fund
indicator (speciﬁcation (3)), or of the stock return risk factors (speciﬁcation (4)), are also
respectively diﬀerent from zero.
25
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
5.1. Estimates of expected return loadings, βD and βG
A key result in panel A is that, for all speciﬁcations, the point estimates of the
parameters in βD and βG associated with target ﬁrm characteristics or stock return factors
have similar magnitudes. For example, a one-sample standard deviation increase in the
book-to-market ratio is associated with an equal increase in the expected announcement
return of 71 basis points for Schedule13D or Schedule 13G ﬁlings (0 .012× 0.592). This is
not the case for the estimated coeﬃcients of investor experience variables and the activist
hedge fund indicator. To wit, Schedule 13D ﬁlings by an activist hedge fund investor
show a signiﬁcant return increase between 50 and 70 basis points (speciﬁcations (3) and
(4)) relative to Schedule 13D ﬁlings by non-hedge fund investors. On average, there is no
signiﬁcant estimated hedge fund activist eﬀect on Schedule 13G ﬁlings. As for the investor
experience variables, for every 10 additional Schedule 13D ﬁlings of prior experience, the
next Schedule 13D ﬁling by the same investor has an additional expected return of almost
19 basis points whereas the next 13G ﬁling is associated with a lower expected return by
almost 25 basis points (speciﬁcation (2)). In contrast, additional Schedule 13G experience
predicts lower Schedule 13D returns, and it is unrelated to subsequent Schedule 13G ﬁling
returns. The evidence that greater experience in ﬁling Schedule 13Ds contributes to higher
announcement returns to Schedule 13D ﬁlings on average, but additional experience in
Schedule 13G ﬁlings contributes to lower Schedule 13D returns, is consistent with the market
being able to recognize those investors that ﬁle Schedule 13Ds only in order to enjoy the
larger average announcement returns without actual intentions to engage in activism from
those that create value.
There are two important consequences regarding the key result highlighted above that
the point estimates of the parameters associated with target ﬁrm characteristics or stock
return factors have similar magnitudes for 13D or 13G ﬁlings. First, the treatment eﬀect
from activism, which equals the diﬀerence between expected returns from each ﬁling
26
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
schedule, µD−µG = x′
i(βD− βG), is not explained by any of the target ﬁrm and risk
factor variables. Rather, it is the investor variables that almost exclusively explain the
treatment eﬀect.
Second, the target ﬁrm variables almost exclusively explain variation in the stock picking
eﬀect. Hence, we cannot conclude that a particular variable carries a treatment eﬀect
based solely on its loading on Schedule 13D expected returns. Indeed, the ﬁnding that
Schedule 13D and Schedule 13G expected returns covary positively with book-to-market
and negatively with sales growth and past stock return performance is consistent with
investors pursuing stock-picking strategies. 12 Similarly, we ﬁnd that investments in less
liquid securities appear to be compensated by higher expected returns regardless of the
ﬁling schedule, consistent with an illiquidity premium as in Amihud (2002). Conversely, this
ﬁnding implies that stock market liquidity facilitates Schedule 13D or Schedule 13G ﬁlings
(Collin-Dufresne and Fos, 2015, 2016). Interestingly, this result contrasts with Edmans
et al. (2013), where liquidity is positively associated with abnormal returns to Schedule
13G ﬁlings of hedge funds. We discuss potential reasons for this diﬀerence in sub-section
5.4.
Finally, the estimated coeﬃcients of the SMB and HML factors are positive and
negative, respectively, both for the expected returns to Schedule 13D or 13G ﬁlings. Since
abnormal ﬁling announcement returns are estimated using backward looking three-factor
model betas, this evidence indicates that the SMB beta must have increased and the HML
beta must have decreased following the ﬁling the announcement. This result is consistent
with the ﬁndings in Patton and Verardo (2012) that market betas change in response to
earnings news.
For the remainder of the presentation, given the remarkable stability of the parameter
12The estimated sign of the average past return performance loading on µD is consistent with the ﬁnding
in Brav et al. (2008).
27
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
estimates across speciﬁcations, we focus the discussion around the estimates in speciﬁcation
(4).
5.2. Estimates of the cost of activism, C
The estimated cost of activism is 4.6 percentage points (Panel B of Table 3) of the
ex post value of the ﬁler’s stake. This estimate is signiﬁcantly diﬀerent from zero with
p-value under 0.01. The estimate of C is equivalent to an average $2.43 million. Noting
from Table 2 that the mean abnormal return in Schedule 13D ﬁlings is 6.33%, the net
average abnormal return to activists is thus 1.73%.13 The estimated loading on the investor
experience variables suggest that there is no free entry in the industry and thus that our
estimated net abnormal return to activism constitutes an economic rent to activism.
Figure 1 provides a useful illustration of how our estimate of ˆC is obtained. The left
panel plots the theoretical values of the announcement returns to Schedule 13D and to
Schedule 13G ﬁlings against possible values of the cost parameter, C, holding all other
parameters constant at their maximum likelihood estimates. Because we are holding the
average values of ˆµD and of ˆµG constant, the only source of variation in either line is the
size of the selection bias. Moreover, the amount of selection bias in Schedule 13D ﬁlings is
increasing in C because, the higher the cost, the higher the required diﬀerence in expected
returns so that the investors chooses to ﬁle a Schedule 13D instead of a Schedule 13G.
By the symmetry of the problem, the amount of selection bias in Schedule 13G ﬁlings is
decreasing in C. The right panel of Figure 1 plots the theoretical probability of a Schedule
13D ﬁling, as a function of C. Clearly, this probability is decreasing in C. Consider now
the ﬁrst order condition forC (Eq. (13)). The ML estimate of the cost parameter trades oﬀ
the amount of sample selection bias in Schedule 13D returns against the amount of sample
selection bias in Schedule 13G returns. Figure 1 shows that, given the values of ˆ µD and
13This number is higher than the annualized mean value weighted abnormal return of 0.23% found in
(Gantchev, 2013).
28
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
ˆµG, the estimate ofC is able to produce a sample selection eﬀect that matches the observed
mean announcement return to Schedule 13D ﬁllings as well as the proportion of 13D ﬁlings,
but overestimates slightly the amount of sample selection in Schedule 13G ﬁlings and the
observed mean announcement return to Schedule 13G ﬁllings.
[Figure 1 about here.]
5.3. Estimates of volatilities
Panel B of Table 3 shows that the announcement returns volatilities, σ∆D and σ∆G,
as well as the due diligence signal volatilities, σsD and σsG, are all precisely estimated.
Notably, the latter are signiﬁcantly larger than the former. In other words, the model
infers low signal-to-noise ratios from the data, implying that more of the variation in ﬁling
choices is determined by the predictable variation in announcement returns µD and µG
rather than by the unpredictable variation in ϵ∆D and ϵ∆G, or in ϵsD and ϵsG.
Figure 2 is useful to understand why the ML estimator makes this inference. Recall
that our estimation procedure targets the joint distribution of announcement returns and
ﬁling choices. The two panels of the ﬁgure illustrate how the ML estimates of σsD and
σ∆D are identiﬁed by two important moments of the joint distribution: the frequency of
Schedule 13D ﬁlings and the volatility of Schedule 13D announcement returns. Indeed,
the solid black line represents the ( σsD,σ ∆D) combinations for which the model-implied
Schedule 13D return volatility equals its data analog (0.222). The indiﬀerence curve has a
negative slope because, in the model, there is a trade oﬀ between either source of noise to
produce any given level of announcement returns volatility. When the due diligence signal
is suﬃciently imprecise, then the volatility of the announcement return,σ∆D, is set to equal
the sample standard deviation of announcement returns, implying from inspection of the
ﬁrst order condition (14) that the eﬀect of σ∆D on selection is zero.
The grey line denotes the ( σsD,σ ∆D) combinations for which the model-implied
frequency of Schedule 13D ﬁlings equals the frequency in the data (0.124). The slope of
29
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
this indiﬀerence curve is positive and increasing, meaning that, in the model, more volatile
announcement returns can only imply the same 13D ﬁling probabilities for signiﬁcantly
more volatile due diligence signals.
The left panel also shows the sensitivity of both estimates to the volatility of Schedule
13D announcement returns. All other moments constant, had the sample standard
deviation of Schedule 13D returns been, say 25% higher, the iso-volatility curve would
have been to the North East, i.e., the dashed black line. In this case, the model would infer
an even lower signal-to-noise ratio in order to match the same proportion of Schedule 13D
ﬁlings with higher ﬁling announcement returns. Conversely, a lower announcement returns
volatility (dotted line) would lead to infer a higher signal-to-noise ratio.
Finally, the right panel shows that a higher (lower) frequency of Schedule 13D ﬁlings
in the data would imply an indiﬀerence curve to the southeast (northwest) of the solid
black line. Therefore, a higher frequency of 13D ﬁlings while keeping the Schedule 13D
announcement returns volatility constant would lead to higher (lower) estimated signal-to-
noise ratio.
The same reasoning applies for the identiﬁcation of σsG and σ∆G. As the ﬁgures are
isomorphic to those for σsD and σ∆D, they are omitted.
[Figure 2 about here.]
5.4. Structural versus reduced-form estimates
For comparison with the ML estimates of expected return loadings in our structural
model, we also estimate the reduced-form analog parameters in the log-likelihood function
(15). We implement the reduced-form estimation via two separate OLS regressions of
announcement returns to Schedules 13D and 13G ﬁlings and a Probit model of the type
of ﬁling. Table 4 presents the results. The ﬁrst two columns reproduce the estimates
of the structural parameters βD and βG from speciﬁcation (4) in Table 3. Columns 3
30
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
and 4 present the OLS estimates of abnormal returns to Schedule 13D and 13G ﬁlings,
respectively. Column 5 provides estimates of the Probit model.
[Table 4 about here.]
The OLS estimates in Table 4 reproduce some reduced-form results in previous
literature. For example, like Brav et al. (2008) we obtain negative coeﬃcients for market
capitalization and leverage for Schedule 13D ﬁlings. There are also many diﬀerences
between the structural and the reduced-form parameter estimates.
Importantly, note that the structural and reduced-form parameters of announcement
returns have diﬀerent signs generally when the signs of the former coincide with the signs
of the Probit model estimates. For example, note that the investor’s Schedule 13D ﬁling
experience, the activist hedge fund indicator or the book-to-market ratio load positively on
expected returns to Schedule 13D ﬁlings in our model, whereas Schedule 13G experience
and institutional ownership load negatively. These variables load with the same sign in the
Probit model for Schedule 13D ﬁlings versus Schedule 13G ﬁlings, but with the opposite sign
or insigniﬁcantly in the OLS regression. The reason for this result is that expected returns
in the model serve two purposes: high expected returns to Schedule 13D help explain why
realized abnormal returns are high, but they also help explain why the investor chose to ﬁle
Schedule 13D. Formally, equation (12) shows that estimates of the structural parameters
depend on how ﬁrm characteristics correlate with selection-adjusted returns.
Table 5 evaluates the performance of the model and the reduced-from approach in
matching some ﬁrst and second moments of the data. The numbers for the model-implied
moments in this table refer to predicted, rather than actual ﬁlings. In panel A, we show
that the model is able to match the frequencies of Schedules 13D and 13G ﬁlings, whereas
the Probit model severely overestimates the proportion of Schedule 13G ﬁlings. Our model
also predicts the individual ﬁling choices much better than the Probit, with a pairwise
31
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
correlation with the actual choices of 0.54 against 0.25, respectively. Most importantly, the
superior ability to match the distribution of ﬁling choices does not compromise our model’s
ability to match moments of the cross sectional distribution of returns, where our model
performs as well as OLS. To summarize, the evidence in Table 5 supports the restrictions
imposed by our model via the joint distribution of ﬁling choices and returns.
[Table 5 about here.]
An alternative reduced-form estimation is the two-step Heckman correction model.
Clearly, this reduced-form alternative cannot do better than our structural ML estimator:
it produces exactly the same results as the Probit model in panel A of Table 5, while only
possibly matching the ﬁrst and second moments of announcement returns as well as our
model (see Appendix B for the detailed results).
6. Additional Implications from Model Estimates
6.1. Expected returns to activism
Table 6 summarizes the properties of estimated unconditional expected returns to
activism,µD, and to passive investing,µG. These returns diﬀer from announcement returns
because they are free from sample selection biases, besides the realized noise in returns.
They are, however, important for our return decompositions (equations (9) and (10)). Panel
A focuses on the subsample of actual Schedule 13D ﬁlings and panel B on the subsample
of actual Schedule 13G ﬁlings.
[Table 6 about here.]
Panel A shows that the mean unconditional expected return to a Schedule 13D ﬁling, ˆµD,
is 5.53% and the counterfactual mean unconditional expected return, ˆµG, to those ﬁlings is
0.77%. Thus, the mean value creation by activists is 5.53%−0.77% = 4.77%, and the mean
value of stock picking is 0.77%. These numbers represent 75.2% and 12.2%, respectively, of
32
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
the predicted announcement return of 6.34% shown in Table 5. The mean estimated value
of sample selection bias is 0 .80%, or 12.6% of the mean predicted announcement return.
For Schedule 13G ﬁlings, panel B shows that the mean unconditional expected return, ˆµG,
is 0.64%. Therefore, the average value of stock picking is quite similar across subsamples
(0.64% versus 0.77%), indicating that a target ﬁrm that was the subject of a Schedule 13D
ﬁling would have experienced only slightly higher than average announcement returns if
a Schedule 13G had been ﬁled instead. 14 The mean value of stock picking in Schedule
13G ﬁlings represent 93% of the predicted announcement return of 0 .69% shown in Table
5, and the average sample selection component in Schedule 13G announcement returns is
0.04%, or about 6% of the mean announcement return. For Schedule 13G ﬁlings, the cross
sectional dispersion of the counterfactual estimate of ˆ µD is much larger than that in the
subsample of Schedule 13D ﬁlings. These ﬁndings suggest that these target ﬁrms represent
a signiﬁcantly diﬀerent investment opportunity than the ﬁrms in the subsample of 13D
ﬁlings, one where the valuation gain comes from stock picking not value creation.
Our decomposition is the ﬁrst to use information from the ﬁling choices and from the
observed announcement returns to identify the treatment eﬀect of Schedule 13D ﬁlings
based on the comparison of Schedule 13D announcement returns to the counterfactual
Schedule 13G returns. In Figure 3, we plot the estimated empirical distributions of the three
announcement return components for actual Schedule 13D ﬁlings. The sample selection
component and the treatment components are positively skewed, whereas the empirical
distribution of the stock picking component is more volatile and almost symmetric.
[Figure 3 about here.]
Panel A of Figure 4 presents the cumulative average buy-and-hold abnormal stock return
14The higher average stock picking eﬀect in Schedule 13D ﬁlings with respect to 13G ﬁlings is explained
by the relatively higher average values of the Amihud Illiquidity, Analyst coverage, Book-to-market ratio,
and Idiosyncratic volatility in the subsample of Schedule 13D ﬁlings. These variables load positively and
signiﬁcantly on the Schedule 13G expected returns.
33
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
around the date of Schedule 13D ﬁlings in our sample. 15 We super impose on the ﬁgure
the breakdown of the average price response into its three components. The mean of the
treatment eﬀect over all Schedule 13D ﬁlings is 75 .2% of the mean announcement return
(dark gray bar in the ﬁgure). The estimated average stock picking eﬀect accounts for 12.2%
of the mean announcement return (gray bar in the ﬁgure). The average sample selection
component for Schedule 13D ﬁlings is 12.6% of the mean announcement return (light gray
bar in the ﬁgure). 16
Below we discuss estimation of the model in the subsample of hedge fund activists.
Panel B of Figure 4 presents the cumulative average buy-and-hold abnormal stock return
around the date of Schedule 13D ﬁlings but only for hedge fund activists. The ﬁgure shows
that the value of treatment as a percentage of the price response to the announcement in
this subsample of investors is signiﬁcantly higher that in the full sample.
[Figure 4 about here.]
6.2. The informational content of expected returns
Our model and estimation assume that the abnormal announcement return to a Schedule
13D ﬁling reﬂects the shareholders’ anticipation of the value creation by activists, albeit with
noise. While this assumption is pervasive in the literature since Holderness and Sheehan
(1985), to the best of our knowledge no study has veriﬁed whether abnormal announcement
returns eﬀectively forecast changes in target ﬁrm performance.
We next perform such an analysis and take a step further, asking which of the
components in our decomposition of ﬁling announcement returns is most informative about
15There is a discrepancy between the abnormal return at t + 10 in Figure 4 and the number reported in
Table 2. In the table, returns are winsorized in the full sample of ﬁlings. In the ﬁgure, returns are winsorized
in the sample of Schedule 13D ﬁlings.
16Note that it is often the case that Schedule 13D ﬁlings are preceded by Schedule 13G ﬁlings on the
same target ﬁrm, by the same or other investors. Hence, the stock price reaction to initial Schedule 13G
ﬁlings may already incorporate the possibility of subsequent 13D ﬁlings. The implication is that the true
treatment eﬀect may be larger than we estimate.
34
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
future performance. Speciﬁcally, we hypothesize that the treatment eﬀect in Schedule 13D
ﬁlings is associated with improvements in ﬁrm performance, over and above the information
in the announcement return. If veriﬁed, this result would imply that our model estimates
provide a better estimate of future value than announcement returns.
To address this question, we estimate the following regression:
yi =αti +αCAR,i +β1CARi +β2Treatmenti +β3Stockpickingi +β4Selectioni +εi, (16)
where yi is change in a performance metric for Schedule 13D ﬁling i, CARi is the
announcement return, Treatmenti is the predicted treatment eﬀect, Stockpickingi is the
predicted stock-picking eﬀect, Selectioni is the predicted sample selection bias, αti are
calendar year ﬁxed eﬀects, and αCAR,i are 500 dummy variables on announcement return
groupings (each group captures 0.2% of the sample). Relative to controlling for a linear
relation between announcement returns and future outcomes using CARi, these dummy
variables provide a more granular control for the relation between announcement returns
and future outcomes. For ease of interpretation of the coeﬃcients, the variables have
been normalized by their sample standard deviation. Note that our estimation procedure
provides the decomposition of expected returns rather than announcement returns for each
speciﬁc ﬁling, implying that Treatmenti, Stockpickingi, and Selectioni do not necessarily
add up to CARi. Therefore, we can include all three components of expected returns as
well as the announcement return in the regression.
Panel A in table 7 reports the results for the change in ROA, from one ﬁscal year
prior to the ﬁling year to one ﬁscal year after the ﬁling year. Column (1) shows that
cross-ﬁling variation in announcement returns is signiﬁcantly related to ﬁrm performance,
as measured by ROA. Speciﬁcally, one standard deviation increase in the announcement
returns leads to 0.54 percentage points increase in ROA, corresponding to more than 10%
of the unconditional ROA mean (see table 2). This ﬁnding suggests that the stock price
35
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
response at announcement correctly reﬂect improvements in future performance.
[Table 7 about here.]
Column (2) shows that Treatmenti and Stockpickingi also positively predict im-
provements in ROA, whereas the relation between Selectioni and future performance is
insigniﬁcant. One standard deviation increase in Treatmenti and Stockpickingi leads
to 2.98 and 1.38 percentage points increase in ROA, respectively. Thus, the economic
magnitude of Treatmenti andStockpickingi coeﬃcients is much larger than that of CARi
coeﬃcient. Interestingly, column (3) shows that when we include CARi and the three
components of the expected return in the regression, the relation between CARi and future
performance becomes insigniﬁcant. In contrast, we see little change in the relation between
Treatmenti and Stockpickingi and future performance.
This ﬁnding suggests that the informational content of Treatmenti and Stockpickingi
is far larger than the informational content of CARi. To further support this conclusion,
we next replace CARi with αCAR,i dummies. Column (4) shows that the inclusion of
these dummies in the regression has little eﬀect on the relation between Treatmenti and
Stockpickingi and future performance. If anything, their coeﬃcients slightly increase.
Panel B reports results for regressions of changes in sales turnover (equal to sales to
assets) on the various components of expected returns as well as on actual announcement
returns. Our ﬁndings are qualitatively similar. Whereas the relation between CARi and
changes in sales turnover is positive but insigniﬁcant, Treatmenti and Stockpickingi are
positively and signiﬁcantly associated with improvements in sales turnover. One standard
deviation increase in Treatmenti andStockpickingi leads to 7.5 and 2.5 percentage points
increase in sales turnover, respectively.
The results so far indicate that Schedule 13D ﬁlings with higher Treatmenti and
Stockpickingi experience larger improvements in future performance, as measured by ROA
36
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
and sales turnover. The positive relation between Treatmenti and future performance
suggests that higherTreatmenti could reﬂect a higher probability that the investor succeeds
in inducing changes in corporate policies as well as a higher gain in case of successful activism
campaign. In the former case, higher Treatmenti should also predict a lower likelihood that
the activism campaign initiated with a Schedule 13D ﬁling evolves into a hostile activism
campaign. We therefore hypothesize that higher Treatmenti should be negatively related
to the probability of a future hostile engagement.
To investigate this hypothesis empirically, we next study the relation between the
three components of expected returns for Schedule 13D ﬁlings, the Schedule 13D ﬁling
announcement returns, and the probability of a proxy contest. Proxy contests are one of
most hostile forms of shareholder activism (e.g. Dodd and Warner, 1983; DeAngelo and
DeAngelo, 1989; Pound, 1988; Fos, 2018). If a Schedule 13D ﬁling has a large treatment
component, future hostile activism may not be necessary.
In panel C of table 7, we report the estimates of the coeﬃcients of the regression in (16),
in which the dependent variable is an indicator that equals 1 if there is a proxy contest
for the target ﬁrm during the ﬁscal year after the Schedule 13D ﬁling. We ﬁnd that only
Treatmenti exhibits a robust signiﬁcant relation with the probability of a proxy contest:
a higher treatment component of expected returns is associated with a lower likelihood
of a proxy contest. This ﬁnding further validates that Schedule 13D ﬁlings with high
Treatmenti are eﬀective in enhancing ﬁrm performance.
6.3. Economic eﬃciency
In our model, on average an activist investor ﬁles a Schedule 13D if, and only if, the
treatment eﬀect captured by the investor exceeds the total private cost paid by the investor,
i.e.,µD−µG>C . Panel B of Table 6 shows that the median value of ˆµD in the subsample
of Schedule 13G ﬁrms is higher than the median value of ˆ µG. This suggests that there is
a large number of target ﬁrms that could potentially have been a target of Schedule 13D
37
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
ﬁlings in the absence of an activism cost. A striking 60% of Schedule 13G ﬁlings in the
data satisfy µD−µG > 0. The cost of activism is an eﬀective deterrent of Schedule 13D
ﬁlings in our model.
What if the cost of activism was shared by all the shareholders? If the shareholders
shared the cost of activism, the average amount of ﬁrm value gained by ﬁling Schedule 13D
instead of the observed ﬁling of Schedule 13G is $35 .6 million per Schedule 13G ﬁling, or
about $60 billion on average per year (untabulated). 17
We note that this exercise is not an endorsement of cost-sharing mechanisms of the
activism cost. Our calculation serves only to provide an upper bound on the potential
gains that can be achieved through such a mechanism. A more rigorous analysis of economic
incentives is necessary to derive policy implications (e.g., this calculation assumes no ex
post renegotiation of the promised cost-sharing arrangement, and no distortions caused by
it). In addition, it may not be welfare increasing for the ﬁrm to share all of the cost of
activism, such as the disutility from risk aversion and the reputational cost discussed in
subsection 2.6.18
7. Robustness
7.1. Activist Hedge Funds
The sample we use to derive the main results contains investors that never ﬁle a Schedule
13D or Schedule 13D ﬁlers who may not have had ﬁling a Schedule 13G as an alternative,
such as individuals in the executive suite whose equity stake crosses the 5% threshold. We
therefore conduct a robustness test on a smaller sample of ﬁlings by activist hedge funds.
17We also use the parameter estimates to calculate the number of actual Schedule 13D ﬁlings with an
estimated negative treatment eﬀect, i.e., where ˆµD < ˆµG. Because of the noise in due diligence, these cases
do not constitute a post-estimation violation of the assumption that ﬁlers maximize their private expected
return. Yet, we show that the proportion of such violations is less that 0 .1%, suggesting that due diligence
noise aﬀects decisions in Schedule 13D ﬁlings only minimally.
18Li et al. (2018) estimate the welfare losses of M&A transactions in which targets are acquired by the
most overvalued rather than the most synergistic bidders. Here, the welfare loss is due to transactions, i.e.
Schedule 13D ﬁlings, that do not occur because the burden of activism is not shared across all shareholders.
38
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Focusing on the sub-sample of activist hedge funds brings several advantages. First, we
exclude the uninformative cases of executives whose equity stake crosses the 5% threshold.
Second, a large fraction of passive investors track performances of indices and never ﬁles a
Schedule 13D. In contrast, 74% of activist hedge funds have ﬁled both Schedule 13D and
Schedule 13G in our sample. Third, activist hedge funds are reputed to be good stock
pickers, facilitating concerns that a ﬁrm that is the subject of a Schedule 13D ﬁling by an
activist hedge funds would have experienced higher than average announcement returns if
a Schedule 13G had been ﬁled instead. One disadvantage of focusing on the sub-sample of
activist hedge funds is, of course, sample size: activist hedge funds are responsible for only
10.8% of the ﬁlings in our sample.
In a nutshell, the model is able to match the mean and variance of announcement returns
and the proportions of 13D and 13G ﬁlings in this subsample as well as in the full sample.
The full details of this estimation are included in Appendix C. This result underscores the
robustness of the model’s assumptions, as the model ﬁts the data in the subsample where
they are most likely to hold. Additionally, the parameter estimates using this subsample
are almost virtually unchanged. That is, the model makes the same inference about the
unobserved parameters in a subsample with diﬀerent moments. To wit, the subsample of
ﬁlings by Activist Hedge Funds contains a signiﬁcantly higher proportion of 13D ﬁlings but
slightly lower announcement returns than in the full sample and yet the correlation between
the estimated treatment eﬀect in the hedge fund sample and the estimated treatment in the
full sample for the same investors is 0.9955. Moreover, the estimates also imply very similar
signal-to-noise ratios and costs of activism ranging between 3% and 4% of stake size (with
also very similar implied dollar estimates). This remarkable parameter stability validates
further the assumptions of the model because it conﬁrms that the same mechanisms seem
to apply over a very heterogeneous cross section of investors and target ﬁrms. Essentially,
this result suggests that our model may have a strong out-of-sample performance.
39
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
If the parameters are very similar, the sample diﬀerences do imply a somewhat diﬀerent
decomposition of announcement returns for ﬁlings by Activist Hedge Funds. Panel B of
Figure 4 shows that the cumulative average buy-and-hold abnormal stock return around
the date of Schedule 13D ﬁlings for hedge fund activists only includes an equally important
sample selection component as in the full sample (panel A), but a relatively higher treatment
eﬀect at the expense of an almost insigniﬁcant stock picking eﬀect. Speciﬁcally, in the
activist hedge fund sample, treatment represents 92 .4%, stock picking represents −4%,
and sample selection bias represents 11.6% of the average predicted announcement returns.
Intuitively, to match the higher proportion of 13D ﬁlings with slightly lower returns by very
experienced ﬁlers, the model infers that the counterfactual 13G returns must be very small.
7.2. Repeated campaigns
In this section, we consider the possibility that a ﬁrm may have been targeted by multiple
large investors in a short period of time. One possibility is, as the case for corporate raiders,
that the presence of a previous Schedule 13D or previous Schedule 13G ﬁler may discourage
future investors (see Holderness and Sheehan (1985)). Alternatively, value creation may
depend on the current number of such large investors.
To address these hypotheses, we reestimate the model adding two new variables to
speciﬁcation (4) in Table 3: two indicator variables, each equal to 1 if the ﬁrm experienced
a Schedule 13D or a Schedule 13G ﬁling by any ﬁler at any point in the 365 days prior to
the ﬁling. The results, which are tabulated in the Appendix, show that the model preforms
equally well as above. Prior recent Schedule 13D ﬁlings load positively on both µD andµG,
suggesting a positive complementarity between past activism and future large investments,
passive or active, in the target ﬁrm. In contrast, there is no evidence of additional value
creation from recent Schedule 13G ﬁlings.
40
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
8. Conclusion
This paper presents a model of the joint distribution of activist investors’ ﬁling choices
and announcement returns. The model, estimated by maximum likelihood, matches several
key moments of the data and outperforms reduced-form models of the joint determination
of activist investors’ ﬁling choices and announcement returns. The model’s counterfactuals
produce estimates of the treatment, stock picking, and sample selection eﬀects embedded
in the theoretical announcement returns to Schedule 13D ﬁlings.
We ﬁnd that stock picking is explained mostly by target ﬁrm characteristics whereas
value creation is almost exclusively explained by investor experience variables. Moreover,
the treatment and stock picking eﬀects predict future improvements in performance
following 13D ﬁlings, subsuming the predictive power of the ﬁling’s announcement returns.
This predictability suggests that our estimate of the treatment component identiﬁes more
eﬀective activism campaigns.
Large estimated private cost of activism not only impact the activists’ returns from 13D
ﬁlings but also the economic eﬃciency of their choice. The mean activist returns, net of
costs, are 1.73%. However, 60% of Schedule 13G ﬁlings could be ﬁled as 13D were this cost
shared with dispersed shareholders, representing an average loss in ﬁrm valuations of $60
billion per year.
Our results suggest that variation in expected returns is a ﬁrst order determinant of
the joint distribution of announcement returns and ﬁling choices. Yet, the admittedly more
complex decision process behind activist interventions could be extended in diﬀerent ways.
The costs of activism or the precision of due diligence may vary across investors or target
ﬁrms. Investors may take into account the price impact of their trading before crossing the
5% ownership threshold. We leave these extensions for future research.
41
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
References
Albuquerque, R., Schroth, E., 2010. Quantifying private beneﬁts of control from a structural
model of block trades. Journal of Financial Economics 96, 33–55.
Albuquerque, R., Schroth, E., 2015. The value of control and the costs of illiquidity. The
Journal of Finance 70, 1405–1455.
Arnold, B.C., Beaver, R.J., Groeneveld, R.A., Meeker, W.Q., 1983. The nontruncated
marginal of a truncated bivariate normal distribution. Psychometrika 58, 471–488.
Back, K., Collin-Dufresne, P., Fos, V., Li, T., Ljungqvist, A., 2018. Activism, strategic
trading, and liquidity. Econometrica 86, 1431–1643.
Bebchuk, L.A., Brav, A., Jiang, W., 2015. The long-term eﬀects of hedge funds activism.
Columbia Law Review 115, 1085–1155.
Becht, M., Franks, J., Mayer, C., Rossi, S., 2008. Returns to shareholder activism: Evidence
from a clinical study of the Hermes UK Focus Fund. Review of Financial Studies 22,
3093–3129.
Boyson, N.M., Gantchev, N., Shivdasani, A., 2017. Activism mergers. Journal of Financial
Economics 126, 54–73.
Brav, A., Jiang, W., Kim, H., 2010. Hedge fund activism: A review. Foundations and
Trends in Finance 4, 1–66.
Brav, A., Jiang, W., Kim, H., 2015. The real eﬀects of hedge fund activism: Productivity,
asset allocation, and labor outcomes. Review of Financial Studies 28, 2723–2769.
Brav, A., Jiang, W., Partnoy, F., Thomas, R., 2008. Hedge fund activism, corporate
governance, and ﬁrm performance. Journal of Finance 63, 1729–1775.
Cliﬀord, C.P., 2008. Value creation or destruction? Hedge funds as shareholder activists.
Journal of Corporate Finance 14, 323–336.
Coﬀee, J.C., 2017. The agency cost of activism: Information leakage, thwarted majorities,
and the public morality. European Corporate Governance Institute Law Working Paper
Number 373.
Collin-Dufresne, P., Fos, V., 2015. Do prices reveal the presense of informed trading? The
Journal of Finance 70, 1555–1582.
Collin-Dufresne, P., Fos, V., 2016. Insider trading, stochastic liquidity, and equilibrium
prices. Econometrica 84, 1441–1475.
DeAngelo, H., DeAngelo, L., 1989. Proxy contests and the governance of publicly held
corporations. Journal of Financial Economics 23, 29–59.
Dodd, P., Warner, J., 1983. On corporate governance: A study of proxy contests. Journal
of Financial Economics 11, 401–438.
42
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Edmans, A., Fang, V.W., Zur, E., 2013. The Eﬀect of Liquidity on Governance. The
Review of Financial Studies 26, 1443–1482.
Fos, V., 2018. The disciplinary eﬀects of proxy contests. Management Science 63, 655–671.
Gantchev, N., 2013. The costs of shareholder activism: Evidence from a sequential decision
model. Journal of Financial Economics 107, 610–631.
Giglia, K., 2016. A little letter, a big diﬀerence: An empirical inquiry into possible misuse
of Schedule 13g/13d ﬁlings. Columbia Law Review 116, 105–145.
Gillan, S.L., Starks, L.T., 2007. The evolution of shareholder activism in the United States.
Journal of Applied Corporate Finance 19, 55–73.
Greene, W., 2008. Econometric Analysis. Pearson/Prentice Hall. URL: https://books.
google.com/books?id=b541vgAACAAJ.
Greenwood, R., Schor, M., 2009. Investor activism and takeovers. Journal of Financial
Economics 92, 362–375.
Guercio, D.D., Hawkins, J., 1999. The motivation and impact of pension fund activism.
Journal of Financial Economics 52, 293 – 340.
Holderness, C.G., Sheehan, D.P., 1985. Raiders or saviors? the evidence on six controversial
investors. Journal of Financial Economics 14, 555–579.
Jiang, W., Li, T., Mei, D., 2018. Inﬂuencing control: Jawboning in risk arbitrage. The
Journal of Finance 73, 2635–2675.
Klein, A., Zur, E., 2009. Entrepreneurial shareholder activism: Hedge funds and other
private investors. The Journal of Finance 64, 187–229.
Li, D., Taylor, L.A., Wang, W., 2018. Ineﬃciencies and externalities from opportunistic
acquirers. Journal of Financial Economics 130, 265–290.
Patton, A.J., Verardo, M., 2012. Does Beta Move with News? Firm-Speciﬁc Information
Flows and Learning about Proﬁtability. The Review of Financial Studies 25, 2789–2839.
Pound, J., 1988. Proxy contests and the eﬃciency of shareholder oversight. Journal of
Financial Economics 20, 237–265.
43
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Table 1: Variable Deﬁnitions. This table deﬁnes the variables used in this study. The data
consists of 8,703 Schedule 13D and 61,234 Schedule 13G ﬁlings from 1996 to 2017. Unless noted, all
variables are measured at the end of the calendar year preceding the date year of each ﬁling.
Variable Deﬁnition
CAR Cumulative abnormal (Fama-French three factor model) returns over the
[t− 30,t + 10] window around the Schedule 13D or 13G ﬁling date ( t)
Market capitalization Market capitalization, in $ millions
Amihud illiquidity Average of all the previous calendar year’s daily statistic:
1000*sqrt(abs(ret)/(abs(prc)*vol))
Analyst coverage Number of IBES analyst covering the stock, scaled by 10
Book-to-market The ratio of book value of equity to market value of equity
Firm age Number of years since the stock’s ﬁrst appearance on CRSP, scaled by 10
Sales growth Annual sales growth over the previous calendar year
HHI of SIC3 The Herﬁndahl index of sales among all ﬁrms in the same SIC 3-digit
Institutional Ownership Total share of institutional ownership
Idiosynchratic Vol. Annualized idiosyncratic volatility, from daily data, using the Fama-
French three factor model
Leverage The ratio of book value of debt to total assets
ROA The ratio of EBITDA to total assets
Avg. Stock return The arithmetic mean of the preceding calendar year’s monthly returns
13D Experience The number of prior Schedule 13D ﬁlings by the same investor
13G Experience The number of prior Schedule 13G ﬁlings by the same investor
Activist HF Equals 1 if the ﬁler is an activist hedge fund
44
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Table 2: Summary statistics. This table summarizes the variables used in this study, which
are all deﬁned in Table 1. The data consists of 8,703 Schedule 13D and 61,234 Schedule 13G ﬁlings
from 1996 to 2017.
Variable n mean std p1 p25 p50 p75 p99
Panel A: Abnormal returns
CAR, Full sample 69,937 1.31% 17.98% -51.18% -7.57% 0.46% 31.74% 66.11%
CAR, Schedule 13D ﬁlings 8,703 6.33% 22.14% -51.97% -5.65% 4.01% 16.79% 67.80%
CAR, Schedule 13G ﬁlings 61,234 0.59% 17.19% -50.30% -7.83% 0.11% 8.40% 58.19%
CAR, Activist hedge funds 7,551 2.77% 19.40% -51.97% -7.20% 1.41% 11.75% 67.80%
CAR, Schedule 13D ﬁlings, Activist hedge funds 2,539 5.98% 19.51% -48.46% -4.60% 4.28% 15.67% 67.80%
CAR, Schedule 13G ﬁlings, Activist hedge funds 5,012 1.14% 19.14% -51.97% -8.48% 0.25% 9.68% 67.80%
Panel B: Firm characteristics
Market capitalization ($ million) 69,937 2,238 10,298 7 113 374 1,249 32,932
Amihud illiquidity 69,937 0.259 0.426 0.007 0.038 0.095 0.270 2.317
Analyst coverage (scaled by 10) 69,937 0.703 0.824 0.000 0.000 0.500 1.000 3.600
Book-to-market 69,937 0.624 0.592 -0.642 0.265 0.492 0.820 3.314
Firm age (scaled by 10) 69,937 1.443 1.517 0.000 0.400 1.000 2.000 7.700
Sales growth 69,937 23.04% 74.29% -73.18% -2.94% 8.29% 25.52% 467.74%
HHI of SIC3 69,937 15.43% 14.57% 1.58% 5.54% 10.89% 19.40% 80.72%
Institutional ownership 69,937 48.26% 35.28% 0.00% 11.16% 52.13% 80.08% 100.00%
Idiosynchratic Vol. 69,937 51.79% 29.46% 13.17% 30.91% 44.69% 64.54% 158.95%
Leverage 69,937 23.32% 24.42% 0.00% 1.83% 17.51% 35.83% 100.00%
ROA 69,937 5.62% 21.16% -85.25% 1.98% 9.68% 16.11% 43.03%
Avg. Stock return 69,937 1.02% 5.09% -12.40% -1.69% 0.90% 3.49% 17.40%
Panel C: Investor characteristics
13D Experience 69,937 6.0 32.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.0 55.0
13G Experience 69,937 536.7 1,018.0 0.0 7.0 62.0 416.0 4,225.0
Activist HF 69,937 0.108 0.310 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 1.000
45
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Table 3: Estimates of the Model’s Structural Parameters
This table shows the estimates of the costs of activism, C, the volatilties of returns, σ∆D and σ∆G,
the volatilities of the due diligence signals, σsD and σsG, and the sensitivities of expected returns,
βD and βG to their determinants, x, for Schedule 13D and Schedule 13G ﬁlings, respectively. For
each ﬁling i, the expected returns from ﬁling a 13D or 13G schedule are given by
µi,D = x′
iβD and µi,G = x′
iβG.
The parameters are estimated by maximum likelihood, targeting the model-implied joint distribution
of ﬁling choices (13D v. 13G) and conditional abnormal announcement returns. The data consists
of 8,703 Schedule 13D and 61,234 Schedule 13G ﬁlings from 1996 to 2017. Standard errors are
shown in brackets under each estimate. Estimates followed by∗∗∗,∗∗, and∗ are statistically diﬀerent
from zero at the 0.01, 0.05, and 0.1 signiﬁcance levels, respectively. The Pseudo R2 statistic is the
proportion of the total variation of abnormal returns from 13D or 13G ﬁlings that is explained by the
model variation in expected returns, µD,i and µG,i, respectively. The LR statistic is the likelihood
ratio for the current specifcation with respect to the speciﬁcation shown on its previous column.
The p-value is for the null hypothesis that the parameters added to the current speciﬁcation are
zero.
Long text to make space Text Text Text Text Text Text Text Text
(Table continues)
46
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
T able 3: continued
Panel A: Estimates of βD and βG.
(1) (2) (3) (4)
βD βG βD βG βD βG βD βG
Constant 0 .035∗∗∗−0.001 0 .038∗∗∗−0.000 0 .037∗∗∗−0.001 0 .039∗∗∗ 0.002
(0.004) (0 .003) (0 .004) (0 .003) (0 .004) (0 .003) (0 .004) (0 .003)
Market cap −0.000 0 .001∗ 0.001 0 .001∗ 0.001 0 .001∗∗ 0.001 0 .001∗∗
(0.001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001)
Amihud Illiquidity 0 .022∗∗∗ 0.019∗∗∗ 0.021∗∗∗ 0.019∗∗∗ 0.021∗∗∗ 0.019∗∗∗ 0.021∗∗∗ 0.019∗∗∗
(0.002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002)
Analyst coverage 0 .004∗∗∗ 0.004∗∗∗ 0.004∗∗∗ 0.004∗∗∗ 0.004∗∗∗ 0.004∗∗∗ 0.005∗∗∗ 0.004∗∗∗
(0.001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001)
Book-to-market 0 .012∗∗∗ 0.013∗∗∗ 0.013∗∗∗ 0.013∗∗∗ 0.013∗∗∗ 0.013∗∗∗ 0.011∗∗∗ 0.011∗∗∗
(0.001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001)
Firm Age −0.000 −0.000 −0.000 −0.000 −0.000 −0.000 −0.000 −0.001
(0.000) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .000)
Sales growth −0.002∗∗ −0.002∗∗∗−0.002∗∗ −0.002∗∗ −0.002∗∗ −0.002∗∗ −0.002∗∗∗−0.002∗∗∗
(0.001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001)
HHI of SIC3 −0.010∗∗ −0.009∗∗ −0.009∗∗ −0.009∗∗ −0.009∗∗ −0.009∗∗ −0.009∗ −0.009∗
(0.005) (0 .005) (0 .005) (0 .005) (0 .005) (0 .005) (0 .005) (0 .005)
Institutional Ownership −0.005∗∗ −0.001 −0.004 −0.001 −0.004 −0.001 −0.004∗ −0.002
(0.002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002)
Idiosynchratic Vol. 0 .002 0 .004 0 .004 0 .005 0 .004 0 .005 0 .001 0 .001
(0.003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003)
Leverage 0 .003 0 .001 0 .003 0 .001 0 .002 0 .001 0 .002 0 .000
(0.003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003)
ROA −0.004 −0.003 −0.003 −0.003 −0.003 −0.003 −0.004 −0.004
(0.004) (0 .004) (0 .004) (0 .004) (0 .004) (0 .004) (0 .004) (0 .004)
Avg. Stock return −0.533∗∗∗−0.533∗∗∗−0.535∗∗∗−0.533∗∗∗−0.535∗∗∗−0.533∗∗∗−0.541∗∗∗−0.539∗∗∗
(0.015) (0 .015) (0 .015) (0 .015) (0 .015) (0 .015) (0 .014) (0 .014)
13D Experience 0 .188∗∗∗−0.245∗∗∗ 0.166∗∗∗−0.181∗∗∗ 0.178∗∗∗−0.219∗∗∗
(0.025) (0 .027) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .025) (0 .027)
13G Experience −0.160∗∗∗ 0.000 −0.143∗∗∗ 0.000 −0.165∗∗∗−0.000
(0.003) (0 .001) (0 .003) (0 .001) (0 .004) (0 .001)
Activist HF 0 .005∗∗ 0.002 0 .007∗∗∗ 0.003
(0.002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002)
Market premium 0.000∗∗ 0.000∗
(0.000) (0 .000)
SMB factor 0.002∗∗∗ 0.002∗∗∗
(0.000) (0 .000)
HML factor −0.001∗∗∗−0.001∗∗∗
(0.000) (0 .000)
Pseudo R2 0 .027 0 .034 0 .035 0 .034 0 .033 0 .034 0 .036 0 .038
LR statistic (χ2) 133,871 12,695 324 292
p-value 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000
(Table continues)
47
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
T able 3: continued
Panel B: Estimates of activism costs and volatilities.
(1) (2) (3) (4)
Parameter Standard Parameter Standard Parameter Standard Parameter Standard
estimate error estimate error estimate error estimate error
C 0.051∗∗∗ (0.003) 0 .046∗∗∗ (0.003) 0 .046∗∗∗ (0.003) 0 .046∗∗∗ (0.003)
σ∆D 0.220∗∗∗ (0.001) 0 .219∗∗∗ (0.001) 0 .220∗∗∗ (0.001) 0 .219∗∗∗ (0.001)
σ∆G 0.169∗∗∗ (0.000) 0 .169∗∗∗ (0.000) 0 .169∗∗∗ (0.000) 0 .169∗∗∗ (0.000)
σsD 4.896∗∗∗ (0.000) 5 .828∗∗∗ (0.301) 6 .495∗∗∗ (0.000) 5 .581∗∗∗ (0.860)
σsG 3.605 (4 .550) 5 .227∗∗∗ (0.000) 5 .878∗∗∗ (1.131) 5 .180∗∗∗ (0.000)
48
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Table 4: Comparing Reduced-form and Structural Estimates
This table shows the parameter estimates of reduced-form models of the ﬁling announcement returns,
and the probability of either type of ﬁling using the same data set as in Table 3. The ﬁrst column
reproduces the structural parameter estimates from column (4) of Table 3. The next two columns
show the OLS coeﬃcients of the regressions of the ﬁling announcement returns for 13D and 13G
ﬁlings. The last column shows the estimates of a Probit model of whether the ﬁling is a Schedule 13D
or not. Standard errors are shown in brackets under each estimate. Estimates followed by ∗∗∗,∗∗,
and∗ are statistically diﬀerent from zero at the 0.01, 0.05, and 0.1 signiﬁcance levels, respectively.
Expected returns models Filing choice model
Structural Reduced form Reduced form
parameters parameters parameters
βD βG 13D ﬁlings 13G ﬁlings 13D v. 13G ﬁling
Constant 0 .039∗∗∗ 0.002 0 .056∗∗∗ −0.001 −1.061∗∗∗
(0.004) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .028)
Market cap 0 .001 0 .001∗∗ −0.003∗∗∗ 0.002∗∗∗ −0.076∗∗∗
(0.001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .007)
Amihud illiquidity 0 .021∗∗∗ 0.019∗∗∗ 0.004∗∗ 0.023∗∗∗ 0.172∗∗∗
(0.002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .019)
Analyst coverage 0 .005∗∗∗ 0.004∗∗∗ 0.010∗∗∗ 0.004∗∗∗ 0.058∗∗∗
(0.001) (0 .001) (0 .002) (0 .001) (0 .015)
Book-to-market 0 .011∗∗∗ 0.011∗∗∗ −0.007∗∗∗ 0.013∗∗∗ 0.048∗∗∗
(0.001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .013)
Firm age −0.000 −0.001 −0.002∗ −0.001 0 .012∗
(0.000) (0 .000) (0 .001) (0 .000) (0 .006)
Sales growth −0.002∗∗∗ −0.002∗∗∗ −0.001 −0.003∗∗∗ 0.006
(0.001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .009)
HHI of SIC3 −0.009∗ −0.009∗ −0.008 −0.009∗∗ −0.028
(0.005) (0 .005) (0 .006) (0 .004) (0 .052)
Institutional ownership −0.004∗ −0.002 0 .028∗∗∗ −0.003 −0.324∗∗∗
(0.002) (0 .002) (0 .003) (0 .002) (0 .029)
Idiosynchratic Vol. 0 .001 0 .001 0 .008∗∗∗ 0.000 −0.052∗
(0.003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .030)
Leverage 0 .002 0 .000 −0.023∗∗∗ 0.002 0 .203∗∗∗
(0.003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .029)
ROA −0.004 −0.004 −0.034∗∗∗ 0.001 −0.009
(0.004) (0 .004) (0 .004) (0 .003) (0 .035)
Avg. Stock return −0.541∗∗∗ −0.539∗∗∗ −0.541∗∗∗ −0.536∗∗∗ −0.040
(0.014) (0 .014) (0 .017) (0 .014) (0 .148)
13D Experience 0 .178∗∗∗ −0.219∗∗∗ 0.156 −0.037 24 .113∗∗∗
(0.025) (0 .027) (0 .010) (0 .076) (0 .859)
13G Experience −0.165∗∗∗ −0.000 −0.038 −0.001 −4.725∗∗∗
(0.004) (0 .001) (0 .008) (0 .001) (0 .124)
Activist HF 0 .007∗∗∗ 0.003 −0.016 0 .006 0 .412∗∗∗
(0.002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .003) (0 .020)
Market premium 0 .000∗∗ 0.000∗ −0.001 0 .000 0 .009∗∗∗
(0.000) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .002)
SMB factor 0 .002∗∗∗ 0.002∗∗∗ 0.002 0 .002 −0.007∗∗∗
(0.000) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .002)
HML factor −0.001∗∗∗ −0.001∗∗∗ 0.001 −0.001 0 .002
(0.000) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .002)
R2 / Pseudo R2 0.036 0 .038 0 .028 0 .040 0 .015
49
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Table 5: Comparison of Sample and Model-implied Moments
This table compares the values of selected moments in the data to those implied by the structural
model of ﬁling choice and abnormal announcement returns. The model-implied moments are
calculated by simulating 10,000 samples of the ﬁling types (13D v. 13G) and the abnormal
annoucement returns of each of the 69,937 ﬁlings, taking as given the determinants of expected
returns, x and using the estimated parameters βD, βG, σ∆D, σ∆G,σsD, σsG, and C from
speciﬁcation (4) in Table 3. The table also shows the moments predicted by reduced-form
estimation using the same derterminants ( x): OLS regressions for the conditional announcement
returns and probit regressions for the ﬁling choice.
Panel A: Filing type frequency
13D ﬁlings 13G ﬁlings
Data Predicted Data Predicted
Reduced Reduced
form Model form Model
Proportion of ﬁlings 0 .124 0 .021 0 .124 0 .876 0 .979 0 .876
(0.001) (0 .001) (0 .003) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .003)
corr(Data, Predicted) 0 .254 0 .535 0 .254 0 .535
(0.004) (0 .003) (0 .004) (0 .003)
Panel B: Conditional distribution of announcement returns
13D ﬁlings 13G ﬁlings
Data Predicted Data Predicted
Reduced Reduced
form Model form Model
Average ﬁling returns 6 .34% 6 .34% 6 .34% 0 .59% 0 .59% 0 .69%
(0.00%) (0 .00%) (0 .24%) (0 .07%) (0 .00%) (0 .07%)
Standard deviation 22 .15% 21 .84% 21 .92% 17 .20% 16 .86% 16 .86%
(0.42%) (0 .41%) (0 .00%) (0 .15%) (0 .15%) (0 .00%)
Q3 of ﬁling returns 16 .79% 8 .42% 8 .46% 8 .40% 2 .25% 2 .34%
(0.00%) (0 .00%) (0 .00%) (0 .00%) (0 .00%) (0 .00%)
corr(Data, Predicted) 0 .168 0 .126 0 .199 0 .198
(0.011) (0 .011) (0 .004) (0 .004)
50
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Table 6: Estimates of expected returns and the components of announcement
returns
This table summarizes the distributions of the estimates of the expected returns returns from
ﬁling a Schedule 13D, ˆµD, or a Schedule 13G, ˆ µG, as well as the components of announcement
returns. The total returns for each deal i, conditional on a 13D ﬁling, include a price adjustment
or mispricing eﬀect, µG,i = x′
i ˆβG; a treatment eﬀect, µD,i−µG,i = x′
i(ˆβD− ˆβG); and a selection
eﬀect, ˆρD,i× ˆσD× ˆλi,D (Panel A). For 13G ﬁlings, the returns are decomposed into a stock picking
eﬀect µG,i = x′
i ˆβG and a selection eﬀect, −ˆρG,i× ˆσG× ˆλi,G. These eﬀects are estimated for each
of the observed 8,703 13D ﬁlings (Panel A) and 61,234 13G ﬁlings (Panel B), taking as given the
target and activist characteristics, xi and using the estimates of the structural model, ˆβD, ˆβG,
ˆσ∆D, ˆσsD, ˆσ∆G, and ˆσsG from speciﬁcation (4) in Table 3.
Panel A: Subsample of Schedule 13D ﬁlings
Standard
Observations Mean Deviation Q1 Median Q3
ˆµD 8,703 5 .53% 4 .19% 3 .36% 5 .29% 7 .71%
ˆµG (Stock picking eﬀect) 8 ,703 0 .77% 4 .01% −1.09% 0 .87% 2 .97%
x′(βD−βG) (Treatment eﬀect) 8 ,703 4 .77% 3 .84% 3 .84% 4 .08% 4 .41%
ρDσDλD (Selection eﬀect) 8 ,703 0 .80% 0 .37% 0 .67% 0 .84% 0 .97%
Panel B: Subsample of Schedule 13G ﬁlings
Standard
Observations Mean Deviation Q1 Median Q3
ˆµD 61,234 −5.44% 17 .81% −5.73% 1 .28% 4 .41%
ˆµG (Stock picking eﬀect) 61 ,234 0 .64% 3 .36% −1.17% 0 .50% 2 .29%
−ρGσGλG (Selection eﬀect) 61 ,234 0 .05% 0 .06% 0 .00% 0 .01% 0 .09%
51
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Table 7: Informational content of expected returns. This table reports estimate of
the following regression: yi = αt(i) + αCAR,i + β1CAR i + β2Treatment i + β3Stockpicking i +
β4Selection i +εi, where yi is a performance metric for Schedule 13D ﬁling i, CAR i is ﬁling i
announcement return, Treatment i is the predicted treatment eﬀect, Stockpicking i is the predicted
stock-picking eﬀect, Selection i is the predicted sample selection bias, αt(i) are calendar year ﬁxed
eﬀects, and αCAR,i are 500 dummy variables on announcement return groupings (each group
captures 0.2% of the sample). For ease of interpretation of the coeﬃcients, the variables have
been normalized by their sample standard deviation. In panel A, the outcome variable is change in
ROA, from one ﬁscal year prior to the ﬁling year to one ﬁscal year after the ﬁling year. In panel B,
the outcome variable is change in sales turnover (equal to sales to assets). In panel C, the outcome
variable is the indicator of a proxy contest. The indicator takes value 1 if the ﬁrm that experiences
a Schedule 13D ﬁling is targeted in a proxy contest during the ﬁscal year after Schedule 13D ﬁling
year, and zero otherwise. Heteroskedasticity-robust standard errors are clustered at the ﬁrm level.
*, **, and *** indicate statistical signiﬁcance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively.
(1) (2) (3) (4)
Panel A: ROA(t+1)-ROA(t-1)
CAR 0.0054** 0.0040
[0.0027] [0.0027]
Treatment 0.0298** 0.0291** 0.0317***
[0.0127] [0.0126] [0.0120]
Stockpicking 0.0138*** 0.0132*** 0.0140***
[0.0028] [0.0028] [0.0028]
Selection 0.0039 0.0041 0.0036
[0.0060] [0.0060] [0.0061]
R2 0.017 0.023 0.024 0.112
N 5,356 5,356 5,356 5,356
Panel B: Sales Turnover(t+1)-Sales Turnover(t-1)
CAR 0.0030 0.0005
[0.0054] [0.0054]
Treatment 0.0750** 0.0749** 0.0767**
[0.0376] [0.0376] [0.0366]
Stockpicking 0.0249*** 0.0249*** 0.0262***
[0.0066] [0.0066] [0.0067]
Selection 0.0179 0.0179 0.0232
[0.0150] [0.0150] [0.0145]
R2 0.01 0.015 0.015 0.111
N 5,356 5,356 5,356 5,356
Panel C: Proxy Contest Target (t+1)
CAR 0.0025 0.0025
[0.0019] [0.0019]
Treatment -0.0491*** -0.0496*** -0.0461***
[0.0149] [0.0149] [0.0170]
Stockpicking -0.0008 -0.0012 -0.0007
[0.0020] [0.0021] [0.0023]
Selection -0.0163* -0.0161* -0.0133
[0.0088] [0.0088] [0.0086]
R2 0.012 0.014 0.014 0.112
N 5,032 5,032 5,032 5,032
Fixed eﬀects:
Year FE Yes Yes Yes Yes
CAR bins (500) No No No Yes
52
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Figure 1: Sensitivity of Model-implied Moments to Activism Costs. This ﬁgure
shows the sensitivity of the conditional announcement returns for 13D and 13G ﬁlings
(left panel) and the proportion of 13D ﬁlings (right panel) to the model’s activism costs
parameters. The left panel plots the 13D ﬁlings’ conditional announcement returns,
E(∆D|z >0) (blue line), and the 13G ﬁlings’ conditional announcement returns,E(∆G|z <
0) (red line), as a function ofC and ﬁxing all other structural parameters at their maximum
likelihood estimates. The horizontal blue and red dashed lines shows the sample mean
announcement returns for 13D and 13G ﬁlings, respectively. The vertical dotted line
shows maximum likelihood estimate of activism costs, ˆC. The right panel plots the model-
simulated average proportion of 13D ﬁlings as a function of C, ﬁxing all other structural
parameters at their maximum likelihood estimates. The average propotion is calculated
over 1,000 simulated date sets. The horizontal dashed line shows the actual proportion
of 13D ﬁlings in the sample an dthe vertical dotted line shows the maximum likelihood
estimate of the of activism costs, ˆC.
53
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Figure 2: Sensitivity of Model-Implied Moments to Volatility Parameters. This
ﬁgure shows the sensitivity of the conditional announcement returns volatility and the ﬁling-
type probability for 13D ﬁlings (left panel) and 13G ﬁlings (right panel) to the model’s
volatility parameters. Both panels show the pairs ( σD,σsD) for which the model-implied
standard deviation of 13D announcement returns equals its sample analog (solid black line),
or for which the model-implied proportion of 13D ﬁlings equals its sample counterpart (solid
grey line). The horizontal line shows the actual maximum likelihood estimate of the due
diligence volatility for 13D ﬁlings, ˆσsD and the vertical line shows the actual maximum
likelihood estimate of the volatility for activist returns, ˆ σ∆D. The left panel represents
shifts to the iso-conditional volatility curve: the dotted (dashed) line plots all the (σD,σsD)
combinations for which the model-implied standard deviation of 13D announcement returns
equals a counterfactual 13D sample standard deviation that is 25% smaller (larger) that the
true sample analog. The right panel represents shifts to the iso-proportion of 13D ﬁlings:
the dotted (dashed) line plots all the ( σD,σsD) combinations for which the model-implied
proportion of 13D equals a counterfactual 13D sample proportion that is 25% smaller
(larger) that the true sample analog.
54
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Figure 3: Estimated decomposition of the expected announcement returns
conditional on 13D ﬁlings. This ﬁgure shows the distributions of the theoretical
components of the 13D announcement returns. The total returns for each deali, conditional
on a 13D ﬁling, include a stock-picking eﬀect,µG,i = xi ˆβG; a treatment eﬀect,µD,i−µG,i =
xi(ˆβD− ˆβG); and a selection eﬀect, ˆρD,i× ˆσD× ˆλi,D. These eﬀects are estimated for each
of the observed 8,703 13D ﬁlings, taking as given the target and activist characteristics, xi
and using the estimates of the structural model, ˆβD, ˆβG, and ˆσD.
55
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Figure 4: Decomposition of 13D ﬁlings Returns. This ﬁgure shows the decomposition
of announcement returns to 13D ﬁlings into the stock picking component, the treatment
eﬀect, and the selection eﬀect. The decomposition in Panel A is for the average ﬁling
under Schedule 13D, using the parameter estimates obtained with the full sample of 69,937
ﬁlings. The decomposition in Panel B is for the average ﬁling under Schedule 13D, using the
parameter estimates obtained with the subsample of 6,742 ﬁlings by activist hedge funds
only. The the solid line plots the average buy-and-hold stock return around the ﬁling date
in excess of Fama-French three-factor model, which is estimated from 360 days through 60
days before the ﬁling date. The abnormal return is plotted from 30 days prior to the ﬁling
date to 10 days afterwards.
56
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Internal Appendix for the paper
“Value creation in Shareholder Activism:
A Structural Approach”
Rui Albuquerque, Vyacheslav Fos, Enrique Schroth
1
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Appendix A. Investor risk aversion
Suppose the investor has exponential utility with a risk aversion coeﬃcient γ≥ 0 over
the total valuation gains. Otherwise, the model is identical to the one in Section 2. Let
ˇC denote the private cost of activism. With exponential utility and normally distributed
errors, the investor’s certainty equivalents under each ﬁling alternative are
CED =E (∆D|sD)− γ
2V (∆D|sD)− ˇC,
and
CEG =E (∆G|sG)− γ
2V (∆G|sG).
The investor chooses to ﬁles a Schedule 13D if and only if
CED >CE G. (A.1)
Otherwise she ﬁles a 13G. Moreover, the certainty equivalent, CED, is given by
CED = µD +
σ2
∆D
σ2
∆D +σ2sD
(sD−µD)− γ
2
σ2
∆Dσ2
sD
σ2
∆D +σ2sD
− ˇC, (A.2)
= µD +
σ2
∆D
σ2
∆D +σ2sD
(ϵ∆D +ϵsD)− γ
2
σ2
∆Dσ2
sD
σ2
∆D +σ2sD
− ˇC. (A.3)
The expression for the certainty equivalent CEG is very similar, with subindices G instead
of D but no cost, ˇC. Hence, the certainty equivalent diﬀerence, z ≡ CED−CEG, is
normally distributed z∼N (E (z),V (z)), with
E (z) = µD−µG− γ
2
σ2
∆Dσ2
sD
σ2
∆D +σ2sD
− ˇC + γ
2
σ2
∆Gσ2
sG
σ2
∆G +σ2sG
, and (A.4)
V (z) =
σ4
∆D
σ2
∆D +σ2sD
+
σ4
∆G
σ2
∆G +σ2sG
. (A.5)
2
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
The only diﬀerence between the models with risk neutrality and risk aversion is the term
−γ
2
(
σ2
∆Dσ2
sD
σ2
∆D
+σ2sD
−
σ2
∆Gσ2
sG
σ2
∆G
+σ2sG
)
in equation A.4. That is, risk aversion aﬀects only the ﬁler’s
decision via the disutility of a risky due diligence, but not through the expected returns.
Hence, we can deﬁne a transformed parameter
C≡ ˇC− γ
2
(
σ2
∆Dσ2
sD
σ2
∆D +σ2sD
−
σ2
∆Gσ2
sG
σ2
∆G +σ2sG
)
, (A.6)
which corresponds to the costs estimated under risk neutrality. Hence, the resulting
estimate of C under risk neutrality must be interpreted more broadly to also include the
disutility of risky valuation gains and due diligence.
3
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Appendix B. A Comparison with Heckman’s Two-Step Approach (1979)
Selection in our model, in which the observed announcement returns depend on whether
the investor chooses to ﬁle 13D or 13G, is diﬀerent from selection in Heckman (1979),
in which wages are unobservable for the unemployed. However, both models presume
a counterfactual action, and hence, both models rqeuire a sample selection correctionto
estimate the population mean without bias. In this subsection, we describe the diﬀerences
between our ML estimates and those obtained from a two-step Heckman estimation. The
coeﬃcient estimates for βD and βG are compared in Table A1. The point estimates of βG
in the maximum likelihood and in the two-step approach are quite similar. However, the
point estimates of βD in the maximum likelihood and in the two-step approach are very
diﬀerent, with the point estimates in the two-step approach much closer to those obtained
from OLS.
[Figure A1 about here.]
The divergence of estimates for 13D loadings of expected returns can be shown via
estimates of the inverse Mills ratio in both models. The results are in Figure A1. The
two panels in the ﬁgure display the maximum likelihood estimate of the inverse Mills ratio,
ˆλ, against the Probit inverse Mills ratio from the two-step approach. Because the Probit
inverse Mills ratio has a small number of extremely high point estimates, we winsorize this
variable at the top 0.5%. The left panel displays the results for 13D ﬁlings and the right
panel displays the results for 13G ﬁlings. The big discrepancy between the two models,
and also the larger values of selection arise in panel A. There is a cloud of points around
the 45 degree line, but there is also a substantial amount of ﬁlings for which maximum
likelihood assigns a much larger role for selection in 13D ﬁlings than Heckman’s two-step
approach, which gives a convex shape relation between the two variables. The magnitude of
the selection in ML is about double the size of that in the Probit model for larger values of
4
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
the Probit inverse Mills ratio. Recall that our estimates of the loadings on expected returns
are required to simultaneously match the distributional properties of the frequency of ﬂings
and the cross sectional variation in expected returns. A bigger role for selection in ML
means that our estimates of βD are playing a greater role in explaining the distributional
properties of the frequency of ﬁlings. Because of the simultaneity involved in deriving the
optimal ˆβD, a two-step approach is not appropriate in the context of our model.
5
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Table A1: Reduced-form and Structural Estimates
This table shows the parameter estimates of reduced-form models of the ﬁling announcement returns
or the probability of either type of ﬁling using the same data set as in Table 3. The ﬁrst column
reproduces the structural parameter estimates from column (4) of Table 3. The next two columns
show the OLS coeﬃcients of the regressions of the ﬁling announcement returns for 13D and 13G
ﬁlings. The ﬁfth column shows the estimates of a Probit model for ﬁling a Schedule 13D or not. The
last two columns show the 2-step Heckman (1979) estimates of the ﬁling announcement returns for
13D and 13G ﬁlings, using the Inverse Mills ratio derived from the estimated Probit modelin column
5. Standard errors are shown in parentheses under each estimate. Estimates followed by ∗∗∗,∗∗, and
∗ are statistically diﬀerent from zero at the 0.01, 0.05, and 0.1 signiﬁcance levels, respectively.
Expected returns models Filing choice Heckman (1979)
model model
Structural
parameters Reduced form Reduced form Reduced form
βD βG 13D 13G 13D v. 13G 13D 13G
Constant 0 .039∗∗∗ 0.002 0 .056∗∗∗−0.001 −1.061∗∗∗ 0.049∗∗ 0.001
(0.004) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .028) (0 .023) (0 .003)
Market cap 0 .001 0 .001∗∗ −0.003∗∗∗ 0.002∗∗∗ −0.076∗∗∗ −0.004 0 .002∗∗
(0.001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .007) (0 .002) (0 .001)
Amihud Illiquidity 0 .021∗∗∗ 0.019∗∗∗ 0.004∗∗ 0.023∗∗∗ 0.172∗∗∗ 0.004 0 .024∗∗∗
(0.002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .019) (0 .006) (0 .003)
Analyst coverage 0 .005∗∗∗ 0.004∗∗∗ 0.010∗∗∗ 0.004∗∗∗ 0.058∗∗∗ 0.010∗ 0.004∗∗∗
(0.001) (0 .001) (0 .002) (0 .001) (0 .015) (0 .005) (0 .001)
Book-to-market 0 .011∗∗∗ 0.011∗∗∗−0.007∗∗∗ 0.013∗∗∗ 0.048∗∗∗ −0.007∗ 0.013∗∗∗
(0.001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .013) (0 .004) (0 .001)
Firm age −0.000 −0.001 −0.002∗ −0.001 0 .012∗ −0.002 −0.001
(0.000) (0 .000) (0 .001) (0 .000) (0 .006) (0 .002) (0 .000)
Sales growth −0.002∗∗∗−0.002∗∗∗−0.001 −0.003∗∗∗ 0.006 −0.001 −0.003∗∗∗
(0.001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .009) (0 .003) (0 .001)
HHI of SIC3 −0.009∗ −0.009∗ −0.008 −0.009∗∗ −0.028 −0.008 −0.009∗
(0.005) (0 .005) (0 .006) (0 .004) (0 .052) (0 .017) (0 .005)
Institutional ownership −0.004∗ −0.002 0 .028∗∗∗−0.003 −0.324∗∗∗ 0.027∗∗∗−0.003
(0.002) (0 .002) (0 .003) (0 .002) (0 .029) (0 .010) (0 .003)
Idiosynchratic Vol. 0 .001 0 .001 0 .008∗∗∗ 0.000 −0.052∗ 0.007 0 .000
(0.003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .030) (0 .009) (0 .003)
Leverage 0 .002 0 .000 −0.023∗∗∗ 0.002 0 .203∗∗∗ −0.023∗∗ 0.002
(0.003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .029) (0 .010) (0 .003)
ROA −0.004 −0.004 −0.034∗∗∗ 0.001 −0.009 −0.034∗∗∗ 0.000
(0.004) (0 .004) (0 .004) (0 .003) (0 .035) (0 .012) (0 .004)
Avg. Stock return −0.541∗∗∗−0.539∗∗∗−0.541∗∗∗−0.536∗∗∗ −0.040 −0.541∗∗∗−0.536∗∗∗
(0.014) (0 .014) (0 .017) (0 .014) (0 .148) (0 .049) (0 .015)
13D Experience 0 .178∗∗∗−0.219∗∗∗ 0.156 −0.037 24 .113∗∗∗ 0.169∗∗∗−0.001
(0.025) (0 .027) (0 .010) (0 .076) (0 .859) (0 .049) (0 .087)
13G Experience −0.165∗∗∗−0.000 −0.038 −0.001 −4.725∗∗∗ −0.059 −0.001
(0.004) (0 .001) (0 .008) (0 .001) (0 .124) (0 .067) (0 .001)
Activist Hedge Fund 0 .007∗∗∗ 0.003 −0.016 0 .006 0 .412∗∗∗ −0.013 0 .007∗∗
(0.002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .003) (0 .020) (0 .009) (0 .003)
Market premium 0 .000∗∗ 0.000∗ −0.001 0 .000 0 .009∗∗∗ −0.001 0 .000∗∗∗
(0.000) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .002) (0 .001) (0 .000)
SMB factor 0 .002∗∗∗ 0.002∗∗∗ 0.002 0 .002 −0.007∗∗∗ 0.002∗∗ 0.002∗∗∗
(0.000) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .002) (0 .001) (0 .000)
HML factor −0.001∗∗∗−0.001∗∗∗ 0.001 −0.001 0 .002 0 .001 −0.001∗∗∗
(0.000) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .002) (0 .001) (0 .000)
Inverse Mills Ratio 0 .005 −0.007∗∗∗
(0.015) (0 .006)
R2 / Pseudo R2 0.036 0 .038 0 .028 0 .040 0 .015 0 .028 0 .040
6
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Figure A1: Inverse Mills Ratios and model-implied mean selection bias.This ﬁgure
shows the scatter plots of the Inverse Mills Ratios of each deal in the sample, estimated
using a reduced-form ﬁling choice probit, against the model-implied Inverse Mills Ratios,
denoted by λf for f∈{D,G} and computed for each deal using the maximum likelihood
estimates of the model’s structural parameters. The left panel is for the 8,703 observed
13D ﬁlings and the right panel for 61,234 observed 13G ﬁlings.
7
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Appendix C. Hedge fund subsample
8
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Table A2: Summary of variables conditional on ﬁling schedule
This table shows the means and standard errors (in parentheses) of all target and activist
characteristics in xi for all 61,234 13G ﬁlings and for all 8,703 13D ﬁlings in the data. The table
also shows the same comparison for the subsample of ﬁlings by Activist Hedge Funds only. The
reported t-statistics (T-stat) are for the diﬀerence of means between the Schedule 13D and Schedule
13G subsamples; the one-tailed p-value is reported underneath it, in brackets.
Full sample Activist Hedge Funds subsample
13D ﬁlings 13G ﬁlings T-stat. 13D ﬁlings 13G ﬁlings T-stat.
Observations / 8,703 61,234 69,935 2,523 4,219 6,740
Degrees of freedom
Market cap −1.85 −0.82 −51.04 −1.55 −1.45 −2.51
(0.02) (0 .01) [0 .00] (0 .03) (0 .02) [0 .01]
Amihud Illiquidity 0 .47 0 .23 50 .85 0 .37 0 .31 4 .71
(0.01) (0 .00) [0 .00] (0 .01) (0 .01) [0 .00]
Analyst coverage 0 .43 0 .74 −33.32 0 .51 0 .52 −0.76
(0.01) (0 .00) [0 .00] (0 .01) (0 .01) [0 .22]
Book-to-market 0 .70 0 .61 12 .28 0 .70 0 .63 4 .68
(0.01) (0 .00) [0 .00] (0 .01) (0 .01) [0 .00]
Firm age 1 .22 1 .47 −14.71 1 .46 1 .15 9 .52
(0.01) (0 .01) [0 .00] (0 .03) (0 .02) [0 .00]
Sales growth 0 .26 0 .23 4 .31 0 .18 0 .25 −3.64
(0.01) (0 .00) [0 .00] (0 .01) (0 .01) [0 .00]
HHI of SIC3 0 .15 0 .15 −2.62 0 .16 0 .15 2 .52
(0.00) (0 .00) [0 .00] (0 .00) (0 .00) [0 .01]
Institutional ownership 0 .35 0 .50 −39.20 0 .44 0 .44 0 .08
(0.00) (0 .00) [0 .00] (0 .01) (0 .01) [0 .47]
Idiosynchratic Vol. 0 .61 0 .51 30 .61 0 .52 0 .57 −6.56
(0.00) (0 .00) [0 .00] (0 .01) (0 .00) [0 .00]
Leverage 0 .25 0 .23 7 .20 0 .23 0 .24 −1.68
(0.00) (0 .00) [0 .00] (0 .00) (0 .00) [0 .05]
ROA 0 .01 0 .06 −21.22 0 .05 0 .01 7 .31
(0.00) (0 .00) [0 .00] (0 .00) (0 .00) [0 .00]
Avg. Stock return 0 .01 0 .01 −8.03 0 .01 0 .01 −1.61
(0.00) (0 .00) [0 .00] (0 .00) (0 .00) [0 .05]
13D Experience 0 .02 0 .00 58 .86 0 .08 0 .01 29 .86
(0.00) (0 .00) [0 .00] (0 .00) (0 .00) [0 .00]
13G Experience 0 .01 0 .61 −52.09 0 .01 0 .06 −27.05
(0.00) (0 .00) [0 .00] (0 .00) (0 .00) [0 .00]
Activist Hedge Fund 0 .29 0 .07 67 .46 1 .00 1 .00 NA
(0.00) (0 .00) [0 .00] (0 .00) (0 .00) NA
Prior 13D ﬁling 0 .26 0 .13 33 .62 0 .26 0 .21 4 .02
(0.00) (0 .00) [0 .00] (0 .01) (0 .01) [0 .00]
Prior 13G ﬁling 0 .62 0 .68 −10.81 0 .69 0 .72 −2.79
(0.01) (0 .00) [0 .00] (0 .01) (0 .01) [0 .00]
Market premium 0 .74 0 .30 8 .62 0 .62 0 .50 1 .15
(0.05) (0 .02) [0 .00] (0 .08) (0 .07) [0 .12]
SMB factor 0 .14 0 .59 −8.57 0 .26 0 .21 0 .59
(0.04) (0 .02) [0 .00] (0 .07) (0 .05) [0 .28]
HML factor 0 .22 −0.33 12 .32 0 .24 0 .24 0 .04
(0.03) (0 .02) [0 .00] (0 .06) (0 .05) [0 .48]
9
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Table A3: Estimates of the Model’s Structural Parameters for Activist Hedge
Fund Investors
This table shows the estimates of the costs of activism, C, the volatilties of returns, σ∆D and σ∆G,
the volatilities of the due diligence signals, σsD and σsG, and the sensitivities of expected returns,
βD and βG to their determinants, x, for Schedule 13D and Schedule 13G ﬁlings, respectively. For
each ﬁling i, the expected returns from ﬁling a 13D or 13G schedule are given by
µi,D = x′
iβD and µi,G = x′
iβG.
The parameters are estimated by maximum likelihood, targeting the model-implied joint distribution
of ﬁling choices (13D v. 13G) and conditional abnormal announcement returns. The estimation
subsample consists of 2,523 Schedule 13D and 4,219 Schedule 13G ﬁlings by Activist Hedge Fund
investors from 1996 to 2017. Standard errors are shown in brackets under each estimate. Estimates
followed by∗∗∗,∗∗, and ∗ are statistically diﬀerent from zero at the 0.01, 0.05, and 0.1 signiﬁcance
levels, respectively. The Pseudo R2 statistic is the proportion of the total variation of abnormal
returns from 13D or 13G ﬁlings that is explained by the model variation in expected returns, µD,i
and µG,i, respectively. The LR statistic is the likelihood ratio for the current specifcation with
respect to the speciﬁcation shown on its previous column. The p-value is for the null hypothesis
that the parameters added to the current speciﬁcation are zero.
Long text to make space Text Text Text Text Text Text Text Text
(Table continues)
10
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
T able A3: continued
Panel A: Estimates of βD and βG.
(1) (2) (3)
βD βG βD βG βD βG
Constant 0 .051∗∗∗ 0.016∗ 0.040∗∗∗ 0.018∗ 0.038∗∗∗ 0.018∗
(0.010) (0 .009) (0 .010) (0 .010) (0 .010) (0 .010)
Market cap 0 .003 0 .004∗ 0.002 0 .004 0 .002 0 .004
(0.002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .003) (0 .002)
Amihud Illiquidity 0 .025∗∗∗ 0.022∗∗∗ 0.024∗∗∗ 0.023∗∗∗ 0.025∗∗∗ 0.023∗∗∗
(0.007) (0 .007) (0 .007) (0 .007) (0 .007) (0 .007)
Analyst coverage 0 .003 0 .002 0 .005 0 .004 0 .006 0 .004
(0.005) (0 .005) (0 .005) (0 .005) (0 .005) (0 .005)
Book-to-market 0 .002 0 .002 0 .003 0 .002 0 .003 0 .002
(0.004) (0 .004) (0 .004) (0 .004) (0 .004) (0 .004)
Firm age 0 .003∗ 0.002 0 .003 0 .002 0 .003 0 .001
(0.002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002)
Sales growth −0.004 −0.003 −0.003 −0.003 −0.003 −0.003
(0.003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003)
HHI of SIC3 −0.018 −0.019 −0.016 −0.019 −0.017 −0.020
(0.017) (0 .017) (0 .017) (0 .017) (0 .017) (0 .017)
Institutional ownership 0 .004 0 .005 −0.002 −0.001 −0.002 −0.000
(0.009) (0 .009) (0 .009) (0 .009) (0 .009) (0 .009)
Idiosynchratic Vol. 0 .003 0 .009 0 .002 0 .008 0 .001 0 .008
(0.010) (0 .010) (0 .010) (0 .010) (0 .011) (0 .011)
Leverage −0.027∗∗∗−0.026∗∗∗−0.026∗∗∗−0.025∗∗ −0.026∗∗∗−0.025∗∗
(0.010) (0 .010) (0 .010) (0 .010) (0 .010) (0 .010)
ROA −0.002 −0.008 −0.005 −0.010 −0.005 −0.011
(0.013) (0 .013) (0 .013) (0 .013) (0 .013) (0 .013)
Avg. Stock return −0.491∗∗∗−0.488∗∗∗−0.495∗∗∗−0.491∗∗∗−0.500∗∗∗−0.496∗∗∗
(0.051) (0 .051) (0 .050) (0 .050) (0 .053) (0 .052)
13D Experience 0 .181∗∗∗−0.228∗∗∗ 0.188∗∗∗−0.271∗∗∗
(0.027) (0 .038) (0 .025) (0 .000)
13G Experience −0.131∗∗∗ 0.003 −0.145∗∗∗ 0.007
(0.036) (0 .035) (0 .035) (0 .033)
Market premium −0.000 −0.000
(0.001) (0 .001)
SMB factor 0 .002∗∗ 0.002∗∗
(0.001) (0 .001)
HML factor 0 .001 0 .001
(0.001) (0 .001)
Pseudo R2 0 .017 0 .022 0 .034 0 .023 0 .037 0 .024
LR statistic (χ2) 29,037 2,032 7
p-value 0 .000 0 .000 0 .286
(Table continues)
11
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
T able A3: continued
Panel B: Estimates of activism costs and volatilities.
(1) (2) (3)
Parameter Standard Parameter Standard Parameter Standard
estimate error estimate error estimate error
C 0.040∗∗∗ (0.005) 0 .030∗∗∗ (0.006) 0 .028∗∗∗ (0.006)
σ∆D 0.198∗∗∗ (0.002) 0 .197∗∗∗ (0.002) 0 .197∗∗∗ (0.002)
σ∆G 0.193∗∗∗ (0.002) 0 .193∗∗∗ (0.002) 0 .193∗∗∗ (0.002)
σsD 4.206∗∗ (1.754) 3 .938 (3 .714) 3 .222∗∗∗ (0.000)
σsG 4.740∗∗∗ (0.000) 4 .106∗∗∗ (0.000) 4 .085∗∗∗ (0.000)
12
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Table A4: Comparison of Sample and Model-implied Moments: Activist Hedge
Funds Subsample
This table compares the values of selected moments in the data to those implied by the structural
model of ﬁling choice and abnormal announcement returns. The model-implied moments are
calculated by simulating 10,000 samples of the ﬁling types (13D v. 13G) and the abnormal
annoucement returns of each of the 6,742 ﬁlings, taking as given the determinants of expected
returns, x and using the estimated parameters βD, βG, σ∆D, σ∆G,σsD, σsG, and C from
speciﬁcation (3) in Table A3. The table also shows the moments predicted by reduced-form
estimation using the same derterminants ( x): OLS regressions for the conditional announcement
returns and probit regressions for the ﬁling choice.
Panel A: Filing type frequency
13D ﬁlings 13G ﬁlings
Data Predicted Data Predicted
Reduced Reduced
form Model form Model
Proportion of ﬁlings 0 .37 0 .21 0 .38 0 .63 0 .79 0 .62
(0.01) (0 .00) (0 .00) (0 .01) (0 .00) (0 .00)
corr(Data, Predicted) 0 .48 0 .57 0 .48 0 .57
(0.01) (0 .01) (0 .01) (0 .01)
Panel B: Conditional distribution of announcement returns
13D ﬁlings 13G ﬁlings
Data Predicted Data Predicted
Reduced Reduced
form Model form Model
Average ﬁling returns 6 .04% 6 .04% 6 .04% 1 .19% 1 .19% 1 .68%
(0.01%) (0 .01%) (0 .39%) (0 .30%) (0 .01%) (0 .30%)
Standard deviation 19 .94% 19 .59% 19 .65% 19 .54% 19 .26% 19 .28%
(0.76%) (0 .73%) (0 .00%) (0 .60%) (0 .59%) (0 .00%)
Q3 of ﬁling returns 15 .63% 8 .00% 7 .77% 9 .96% 2 .93% 3 .35%
(0.01%) (0 .01%) (0 .01%) (0 .01%) (0 .01%) (0 .01%)
corr(Data, Predicted) 0 .186 0 .164 0 .168 0 .161
(0.020) (0 .020) (0 .015) (0 .0154)
13
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Table A5: Estimates of expected returns and the components of announcement
returns: Activist Hedge funds subsample
This table summarizes the distributions of the estimates of the expected returns returns from
ﬁling a Schedule 13D, ˆµD, or a Schedule 13G, ˆ µG, as well as the components of announcement
returns. The total returns for each deal i, conditional on a 13D ﬁling, include a price adjustment
or mispricing eﬀect, µG,i = x′
i ˆβG; a treatment eﬀect, µD,i−µG,i = x′
i(ˆβD− ˆβG); and a selection
eﬀect, ˆρD,i× ˆσD× ˆλi,D (Panel A). For 13G ﬁlings, the returns are decomposed into a stock picking
eﬀectµG,i = x′
i ˆβG and a selection eﬀect,−ˆρG,i× ˆσG× ˆλi,G. These eﬀects are estimated for each of
the observed 2,523 13D ﬁlings (Panel A) and 4,219 13G ﬁlings (Panel B), taking as given the target
and activist characteristics, xi and using the estimates of the structural model, ˆβD, ˆβG, ˆσ∆D, ˆσsD,
ˆσ∆G, and ˆσsG from speciﬁcation (3) in Table A3.
Panel A: Subsample of Schedule 13D ﬁlings
Standard
Observations Mean Deviation Q1 Median Q3
ˆµD 2,523 5 .34% 3 .82% 3 .02% 4 .82% 7 .15%
ˆµG (Stock picking eﬀect) 2 ,523 −0.24% 4 .97% −1.63% 0 .86% 2 .66%
x′(βD−βG) (Treatment eﬀect) 2 ,523 5 .58% 6 .85% 2 .32% 2 .79% 3 .99%
ρDσDλD (Selection eﬀect) 2 ,523 0 .70% 0 .50% 0 .36% 0 .78% 0 .98%
Panel B: Subsample of Schedule 13G ﬁlings
Standard
Observations Mean Deviation Q1 Median Q3
ˆµD 4,219 3 .03% 3 .32% 1 .07% 3 .05% 4 .94%
ˆµG (Stock picking eﬀect) 4 ,219 1 .44% 3 .02% −0.25% 1 .43% 3 .11%
−ρGσGλG (Selection eﬀect) 4 ,219 0 .24% 0 .14% 0 .15% 0 .24% 0 .32%
14
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Appendix D. Additional speciﬁcations
Table A6: Estimates of the Model’s Structural Parameters for Additional
Speciﬁcations
This table shows the estimates of the costs of activism, C, the volatilties of returns, σ∆D and σ∆G,
the volatilities of the due diligence signals, σsD and σsG, and the sensitivities of expected returns,
βD and βG to their determinants, x, for Schedule 13D and Schedule 13G ﬁlings, respectively. For
each ﬁling i, the expected returns from ﬁling a 13D or 13G schedule are given by
µi,D = x′
iβD and µi,G = x′
iβG.
The parameters are estimated by maximum likelihood, targeting the model-implied joint distribution
of ﬁling choices (13D v. 13G) and conditional abnormal announcement returns. The estimation
sample consists of 8,703 Schedule 13D and 61,234 Schedule 13G ﬁlings from 1996 to 2017. Standard
errors are shown in brackets under each estimate. Estimates followed by∗∗∗,∗∗, and∗ are statistically
diﬀerent from zero at the 0.01, 0.05, and 0.1 signiﬁcance levels, respectively. The Pseudo R2 statistic
is the proportion of the total variation of abnormal returns from 13D or 13G ﬁlings that is explained
by the model variation in expected returns, µD,i and µG,i, respectively. The LR statistic is the
likelihood ratio for the current specifcation with respect to the speciﬁcation shown on its previous
column. The p-value is for the null hypothesis that the parameters added to the current speciﬁcation
are zero.
Long text to make space Text Text Text Text Text Text Text Text
(Table continues)
15
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
T able A6: continued
Panel A: Estimates of βD and βG.
(1) (2) (3) (4)
βD βG βD βG βD βG βD βG
Constant 0 .035∗∗∗−0.001 0 .037∗∗∗−0.001 0 .035∗∗∗−0.002 0 .037∗∗∗ 0.001
(0.004) (0 .003) (0 .004) (0 .003) (0 .004) (0 .003) (0 .004) (0 .003)
Market cap −0.000 0 .001∗ 0.001 0 .001∗∗ 0.001 0 .001∗∗ 0.001 0 .001∗∗
(0.001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001)
Amihud Illiquidity 0 .022∗∗∗ 0.019∗∗∗ 0.021∗∗∗ 0.019∗∗∗ 0.021∗∗∗ 0.020∗∗∗ 0.021∗∗∗ 0.019∗∗∗
(0.002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002)
Analyst coverage 0 .004∗∗∗ 0.004∗∗∗ 0.004∗∗∗ 0.004∗∗∗ 0.005∗∗∗ 0.004∗∗∗ 0.005∗∗∗ 0.004∗∗∗
(0.001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001)
Book-to-market 0 .012∗∗∗ 0.013∗∗∗ 0.013∗∗∗ 0.013∗∗∗ 0.013∗∗∗ 0.013∗∗∗ 0.011∗∗∗ 0.011∗∗∗
(0.001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001)
Firm age −0.000 −0.000 −0.000 −0.000 −0.000 −0.000 −0.000 −0.001
(0.000) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .000) (0 .000)
Sales growth −0.002∗∗ −0.002∗∗∗−0.002∗∗ −0.002∗∗ −0.002∗∗ −0.002∗∗∗−0.002∗∗∗−0.002∗∗∗
(0.001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001)
HHI of SIC3 −0.010∗∗ −0.009∗∗ −0.009∗∗ −0.009∗∗ −0.009∗∗ −0.009∗∗ −0.009∗∗ −0.009∗∗
(0.005) (0 .005) (0 .005) (0 .005) (0 .005) (0 .005) (0 .005) (0 .005)
Institutional ownership −0.005∗∗ −0.001 −0.004 −0.001 −0.004 −0.002 −0.005∗ −0.002
(0.002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .003) (0 .002) (0 .003) (0 .002)
Idiosynchratic Vol. 0 .002 0 .004 0 .004 0 .005 0 .004 0 .004 0 .000 0 .001
(0.003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003)
Leverage 0 .003 0 .001 0 .002 0 .001 0 .002 0 .000 0 .002 −0.000
(0.003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003) (0 .003)
ROA −0.004 −0.003 −0.003 −0.003 −0.003 −0.003 −0.004 −0.004
(0.004) (0 .004) (0 .004) (0 .004) (0 .004) (0 .004) (0 .004) (0 .004)
Avg. Stock return −0.533∗∗∗−0.533∗∗∗−0.535∗∗∗−0.533∗∗∗−0.535∗∗∗−0.533∗∗∗−0.541∗∗∗−0.539∗∗∗
(0.015) (0 .015) (0 .015) (0 .015) (0 .015) (0 .015) (0 .015) (0 .014)
13D Experience 0 .166∗∗∗−0.181∗∗∗ 0.166∗∗∗−0.190∗∗∗ 0.179∗∗∗−0.235∗∗∗
(0.000) (0 .000) (0 .026) (0 .027) (0 .026) (0 .027)
13G Experience −0.143∗∗∗ 0.000 −0.146∗∗∗ 0.000 −0.169∗∗∗−0.000
(0.003) (0 .001) (0 .003) (0 .001) (0 .004) (0 .001)
Activist Hedge Fund 0 .005∗∗ 0.002 0 .005∗∗ 0.002 0 .007∗∗∗ 0.003
(0.002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002)
Prior 13D ﬁling 0 .007∗∗∗ 0.004∗∗ 0.007∗∗∗ 0.004∗∗
(0.002) (0 .002) (0 .002) (0 .002)
Prior 13G ﬁling 0 .001 0 .002 0 .001 0 .001
(0.001) (0 .001) (0 .001) (0 .001)
Market premium 0.000∗∗ 0.000∗
(0.000) (0 .000)
SMB factor 0.002∗∗∗ 0.002∗∗∗
(0.000) (0 .000)
HML factor −0.001∗∗∗−0.001∗∗∗
(0.000) (0 .000)
Pseudo R2 0 .027 0 .034 0 .033 0 .034 0 .033 0 .034 0 .036 0 .038
LR statistic 133,871 13,019 224 284
p-value 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000 0 .000
(Table continues)
16
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
T able A3: continued
Panel B: Estimates of activism costs and volatilities.
(1) (2) (3) (4)
Parameter Standard Parameter Standard Parameter Standard Parameter Standard
estimate error estimate error estimate error estimate error
C 0.051∗∗∗ (0.003) 0 .046∗∗∗ (0.003) 0 .045∗∗∗ (0.003) 0 .046∗∗∗ (0.003)
σ∆D 0.220∗∗∗ (0.001) 0 .220∗∗∗ (0.001) 0 .219∗∗∗ (0.001) 0 .219∗∗∗ (0.001)
σ∆G 0.169∗∗∗ (0.000) 0 .169∗∗∗ (0.000) 0 .169∗∗∗ (0.000) 0 .169∗∗∗ (0.000)
σsD 4.896∗∗∗ (0.000) 6 .495∗∗∗ (0.000) 6 .296∗∗∗ (0.656) 5 .292∗∗∗ (0.060)
σsG 3.605 (4 .550) 5 .878∗∗∗ (1.131) 5 .738∗∗∗ (0.462) 4 .800∗∗∗ (0.000)
17
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Appendix E. Statistical inference
Next we discuss how sample selection bias aﬀects the t-statistics of sample average
announcement returns. Recall from equations (7) and (8) that selection bias both increases
mean returns and decreases the variance of returns, thus biasing t-statistics of sample mean
returns upwards. In this subsection we assess this bias in empirical t-statistics.
Figure A2 shows the theoretical distributions of the mean (left), standard deviation
(center), and t-statistics (right) of unconditional announcement returns (top row), i.e.,
including all deals, and of announcement returns conditional on a 13D ﬁling (bottom row).
To construct the top row distributions, we take the values of ˆ µD for those deals ﬁled as
Schedule 13D as well as for those deals ﬁled as Schedule 13G. We then simulate 1,000
samples of returns ∆D, each sample with size 67,758 using N(ˆµD, ˆσ2
D). For each simulation
we calculate the sample mean return, the sample standard deviation of returns, and the
sample t-statistic. Looking at the left most panel, we see that unconditional mean returns
to 13D ﬁlings have a negative domain. This is driven by the unconditional counterfactual
returnsµD in those ﬁlings that were ﬁled as 13G, since 13G ﬁlings constitute the majority of
our sample, and since the average of ˆµD in the sample of 13D ﬁlers is positive. Intuitively, if
the investor ﬁled 13G, the mean counterfactual returns to 13D would have to be low. Why
are counterfactual returns µD in 13G ﬁlings so negative? The answer to this question lies
in Table 3. The loading on the variable that describes the investor’s history as a 13G ﬁler
carries a large negative coeﬃcient for µD. An investor with mainly a history of 13G ﬁlings
is strongly penalized for doing a 13D ﬁling, and so the counterfactual for that investor is a
low expected announcement return to ﬁling 13D Schedule.
[Figure A2 about here.]
To construct the bottom row distributions, we take the values of ˆµD and of ˆµG for those
deals ﬁled as Schedule 13D as well as for those deals ﬁled as Schedule 13G. We then simulate
18
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
1,000 samples of returns ∆ D and ∆G, and due diligence signals, each sample with size
67,758, and allow 13D ﬁlings be chosen as the investor would by evaluating CED≥CEG.
We then calculate on this smaller sample the mean return, the sample standard deviation of
returns, and the sample t-statistic. The domain of conditional mean returns to 13D ﬁlings
is in the positive numbers with an average close to 5.4%, which is the mean announcement
return to 13D ﬁlings.
What explains the large diﬀerence in the distribution of returns (left plots) in the top
(∆D) and bottom rows ( E (∆D|z >0))? Equation (7) says that for those deals ﬁled as
13D, the diﬀerence between the announcement return,E (∆D|z >0), and the unconditional
mean return, µD, is a sample selection bias. We know from section 6.2 that this amount of
selection is on average 0.83%, so it cannot explain the whole diﬀerence in distributions; the
value of 0.83% is the average sample selection conditional on those deals ﬁled as 13D. The
remaining diﬀerence in the distribution of returns in the top and bottom rows is tied to the
low average counterfactual returns to ﬁling 13D in those deals that actually were ﬁled as
13G. The right most plot at the bottom of the ﬁgure shows that the empirical t-statistic is
at the center of the theoretical distribution.
19
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
Figure A2: Model-implied simulated announcement returns for 13D ﬁlings. This
ﬁgure shows the theoretical distributions of the mean (left), standard deviation (center)
and t-statistics (right) of the average expected returns and announcement returns implied
by the estimates of the structural model. Each histogram is for the moments of each
of 1,000 simulated data sets. The moments are computed over all predicted 13D ﬁlings
in each simulation of a data set of 69,937 ﬁlings, taking as given the activist and target
characteristic of each deal.
20
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3639636
about ECGI
The European Corporate Governance Institute has been established to improve corpo-
rate governance through fostering independent scientific research and related activities.
The ECGI will produce and disseminate high quality research while remaining close to 
the concerns and interests of corporate, financial and public policy makers. It will draw on 
the expertise of scholars from numerous countries and bring together a critical mass of 
expertise and interest to bear on this important subject.
The views expressed in this working paper are those of the authors, not those of the ECGI 
or its members. 
www.ecgi.global
ECGI Working Paper Series in Finance
Editorial Board
Editor  Mike Burkart, Professor of Finance, London School of   
 Economics and Political Science
Consulting Editors Franklin Allen, Nippon Life Professor of Finance, Professor of  
 Economics, The Wharton School of the University of   
 Pennsylvania
 Julian Franks, Professor of Finance, London Business School
 Marco Pagano, Professor of Economics, Facoltà di Economia
 Università di Napoli Federico II
 Xavier Vives, Professor of Economics and Financial   
 Management, IESE Business School, University of Navarra
 Luigi Zingales, Robert C. McCormack Professor of   
 Entrepreneurship and Finance, University of Chicago, Booth  
 School of Business
Editorial Assistant Úna Daly, ECGI Working Paper Series Manager
 
 
           https://ecgi.global/content/working-papers
Electronic Access to the Working Paper Series
The full set of ECGI working papers can be accessed through the Institute’s Web-site 
(https://ecgi.global/content/working-papers) or SSRN:
Finance Paper Series  http://www.ssrn.com/link/ECGI-Fin.html 
Law Paper Series  http://www.ssrn.com/link/ECGI-Law.html 
https://ecgi.global/content/working-papers