 
 
ACTIVISM, STRATEGIC TRADING, AND LIQUIDITY
Author(s): Kerry Back, Pierre Collin-Dufresne, Vyacheslav Fos, Tao Li and  Alexander
Ljungqvist
Source: Econometrica, Vol. 86, No. 4 (July 2018), pp. 1431-1463
Published by: The Econometric Society
Stable URL: https://www.jstor.org/stable/44955996
Accessed: 21-04-2026 14:41 UTC
 
JSTOR is a not-for-profit service that helps scholars, researchers, and students discover, use, and build upon a wide
range of content in a trusted digital archive. We use information technology and tools to increase productivity and
facilitate new forms of scholarship. For more information about JSTOR, please contact support@jstor.org.
 
Your use of the JSTOR archive indicates your acceptance of the Terms & Conditions of Use, available at
https://about.jstor.org/terms
 
The Econometric Society is collaborating with JSTOR to digitize, preserve and extend access
to Econometrica
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 Econométrica , Vol. 86, No. 4 (July, 2018), 1431-1463
 ACTIVISM, STRATEGIC TRADING, AND LIQUIDITY 
 Kerry Back 
 Jones Graduate School of Business and Department of Economics, Rice University 
 Pierre Collin-Dufresne 
 Swiss Finance Institute at EPFL, École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne and CEPR 
 Vyacheslav FOS 
 Carroll School of Management, Boston College 
 Tao Li 
 Department of Economics and Finance, City University of Hong Kong 
 Alexander Ljungqvist 
 Stockholm School of Economics, Swedish House of Finance and NBER 
 We analyze dynamic trading by an activist investor who can expend costly effort to 
 affect firm value. We obtain the equilibrium in closed form for a general activism tech- 
 nology, including both binary and continuous outcomes. Variation in parameters can 
 produce either positive or negative relations between market liquidity and economic 
 efficiency, depending on the activism technology and model parameters. Two results 
 that contrast with the previous literature are that (a) the relationship between market 
 liquidity and economic efficiency is independent of the activist's initial stake for a broad 
 set of activism technologies, and (b) an increase in noise trading can reduce market liq- 
 uidity because it increases uncertainty about the activist's trades (the activist trades in 
 the opposite direction of noise traders) and thereby increases information asymmetry 
 about the activist's intentions. 
 Keywords: Kyle model, insider trading, strategic trading, asymmetric information, 
 liquidity, price impact, market depth, activism, unobservable effort, economic effi- 
 ciency, continuous time. 
 1. INTRODUCTION 
 Activist shareholders, who seek to alter corporate policies and thereby affect share 
 values, play an important role in modern corporate governance. The Economist (February 
 7, 2015) describes them as "capitalism's unlikely heroes" and reports that between 2010 
 and 2014, half the companies in the Standard and Poors (S&P) 500 index had an activist 
 shareholder and one in seven was the target of an activist campaign. Activism comes in 
 many forms. Perhaps the best known involves hedge funds accumulating stakes in firms 
 Kerry Back: Kerry.E.Back@rice.edu 
 Pierre Collin-Dufresne: pierre.collin-dufresne@epfl.ch 
 Vyacheslav Fos: fos@bc.edu 
 Tao Li: taoli3@cityu.edu.hk 
 Alexander Ljungqvist: alexander.ljungqvist@hhs.se 
 This paper consolidates and substantially extends the theory parts of two prior working papers: Back, Li, 
 and Ljungqvist (2015) and Collin-Dufresne and Fos (2015b). We are grateful to Jean-Noel Barrot, Alon Brav, 
 Bradyn Breon-Drish, Carole Comerton-Forde, Quinn Curtis, David De Angelis, Alex Edmans, Vivian Fang, 
 Dirk Hackbarth, Stacey Jacobsen, Wei Jiang, Barbara Katz, Doron Levit, Andrey Malenko, Nadya Malenko, 
 Ernst Maug, and Konstantinos Zachariadis for helpful comments. We gratefully acknowledge generous fund- 
 ing from the Swedish House of Finance. 
 © 2018 The Econometric Society https://doi.org/10.3982/ECTA14917 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1432 BACKETAL. 
 with the intention to create value by influencing management.1 Existing shareholders can 
 turn from being passive to being active when they recognize an opportunity for enhancing 
 the value of their holdings.2 In addition, activist short-sellers can take actions so as to 
 reduce firm value to benefit their short positions.3 Potential activists can profit by trading 
 whenever the market incorrectly perceives their intentions, and these trades determine an 
 activist's blockholding and, hence, her incentives to become active and thereby create (or 
 destroy) value. Thus, there are fundamental links between market conditions (liquidity), 
 activism, and firm value. 
 We study the links between liquidity, activism, and firm value by generalizing the dy- 
 namic version of the Kyle (1985) model to a strategic trader (the potential activist) who 
 can affect the firm's liquidation value by expending costly effort. We assume this trader 
 has private information about her block size and, hence, private information about her 
 own intentions regarding activism. We work in continuous time, because similar to Back's 
 (1992) extension of the Kyle model to non-Gaussian distributions, it affords tractability.4 
 We allow for a general cost-of-effort function, but are able to obtain analytic solutions 
 for the equilibrium trading strategy and the equilibrium pricing rule. We obtain a simple 
 closed-form solution for the equilibrium trading strategy that is independent of the cost- 
 of-effort function. We characterize how the economic environment - the amount of noise 
 trading, the uncertainty about the potential activist's initial block size, and the cost-of- 
 effort function - affect the value and liquidity of the firm's stock. 
 We generalize the work of Maug (1998), who studies a single-period model with binary 
 activism, in which the activist's action leads to a fixed increase in firm value. In reality, 
 there are many different types of activism, including those with non-binary effort and 
 those resulting in a non-binary effect on firm value. When an activist seeks to increase 
 payouts (e.g., Carl Icahn and Apple), it arguably requires more effort to induce a larger 
 change in payout policy, which leads to a larger effect on firm value. When an activist 
 wants to influence whether a merger and acquisition (M&A) deal is completed, the out- 
 come is likely to be binary but the effort expended by the activist is continuous (Jiang, Li, 
 and Mei (2016)). The probability that the activist is successful is an increasing function of 
 her continuous effort. Other examples (replacing a chief executive officer (CEO), replac- 
 ing directors, changing governance rules) are similar. We find that there are significant 
 differences between the binary model and continuous models. For example, a key result 
 of Maug (1998) - an increase in noise trading increases activism if and only if the initial 
 stake of the activist lies below a certain threshold - is true in the binary model but not 
 in continuous models. For example, if the activism technology is such that the value the 
 activist chooses to create depends convexly on her block size, then an increase in noise 
 trading always increases activism. 
 The link between liquidity and activism is bidirectional: just as market liquidity affects 
 activism, so also does the potential for activism affect market liquidity. The latter direc- 
 tion has received little attention in the literature. One insight we obtain by studying the 
 'Prominent examples include William Ackman, Carl Icahn, Daniel Loeb, and Nelson Peltz. 
 2CALPERS and the Norwegian sovereign wealth fund are well known examples of this form of activism. 
 3For an example, see Bloomberg Business on how "Hedge funds found a new way to attack drug companies 
 and short their stock" (March 20, 2015), which describes how some activist hedge funds challenge pharma- 
 ceutical patents in court to reduce the value of the firms that own these patents, presumably benefitting from 
 previously established short positions. 
 4In Appendix D, we study the one-period model. This yields explicit results only for simple special cases that 
 are uninteresting for the main question we investigate. 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 ACTIVISM, STRATEGIC TRADING, AND LIQUIDITY 1433 
 effect of activism on liquidity is that increases in noise (liquidity) trading do not neces- 
 sarily increase market liquidity. This stands in contrast to the classic remark of Treynor 
 (1971), which is encapsulated in Kyle's lambda (Kyle (1985)), that "the liquidity of a mar- 
 ket ... is inversely related to the average rate of flow of new information . . . and directly 
 related to the volume of liquidity motivated transactions." We show that an activist will 
 generally trade in the opposite direction of noise traders, buying when they depress the 
 price by selling and selling when they inflate the price by buying. Consequently, more 
 noise trading produces more uncertainty about the size of the activist's eventual block- 
 holding, increasing the ability of the activist to trade profitably before becoming active. 
 This increase in information asymmetry due to liquidity trading can more than offset the 
 direct effect of liquidity trading on market liquidity, causing market liquidity to fall. 
 2. RELATED LITERATURE 
 Differing views have been expressed regarding the effect of market liquidity on ac- 
 tivism. Coffee (1991) and Bhide (1993) argue that higher liquidity should be associated 
 with lower economic efficiency, because liquid markets make it easy for large shareholders 
 to "take the Wall Street walk" (i.e., sell down their positions) rather than engage actively 
 in a firm's corporate governance when intervention might increase firm value. A certain 
 level of illiquidity might then be desirable to "lock in" large shareholders. Maug (1998) 
 argues the opposite, pointing out that greater market liquidity enables a potential ac- 
 tivist who does not already own a sizeable initial toehold to accumulate more shares and 
 eventually become active. Of course, both market liquidity and activism are endogenous. 
 Whether an exogenous shock moves the two in the same direction or in opposite direc- 
 tions depends on the nature of the shock. It also depends, as we show, on the activism 
 technology. 
 DeMarzo and Uroševič (2006) also analyze a dynamic market with a blockholder whose 
 actions affect corporate value.5 A key distinction between their paper and ours is that they 
 assume a fully revealing rational expectations equilibrium. In contrast, we follow Kyle 
 (1985) by assuming there is some additional uncertainty in the market (namely, noise 
 trading) that provides camouflage for the blockholder's trading. This allows the market's 
 forecast of the blockholder's plans to sometimes deviate from what the blockholder her- 
 self regards as most likely, producing profitable trading opportunities. 
 There are several papers, in addition to Maug (1998), that analyze single-period mar- 
 ket microstructure models involving one or more strategic traders who may intervene 
 in corporate governance. These include Kyle and Vila (1991), Admati, Pfleiderer, and 
 Zechner (1994), Bolton and von Thadden (1998), Kahn and Winton (1998), Ravid and 
 Spiegel (1999), Bris (2002), Noe (2002), Faure-Grimaud and Gromb (2004), and Blonski 
 and Lilienfeld-Toal (20 16). 6 The papers most closely related to ours are Kyle and Vila's 
 and Kahn and Winton's. Kahn and Winton's model structure is quite similar to Maug's. 
 In their comparison of their work with Maug's, they state that they complement Maug by 
 focusing on issues other than the effect of liquidity on governance. Kyle and Vila's con- 
 clusion regarding the effect of noise trading on activism (a value-enhancing takeover in 
 their case) is similar to the result we obtain with a binary value distribution (and similar 
 to Maug's result). Our paper contributes to this literature by developing a model with a 
 5 See Gorton, He, and Huang (2014) for a related paper that considers the asset pricing implications of large 
 shareholder moral hazard. 
 6See Edmans (2014) for a survey of the literature. 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1434 BACKETAL. 
 general activism technology. As our paper indicates, generalizing the activism technology 
 leads to fundamental changes in the relation between liquidity and economic efficiency. 
 Another strand of the literature on trading and activism that is tangentially related to 
 our paper is the literature on "governance by exit," which includes the papers by Admati 
 and Pfleiderer (2009), Edmans (2009), Edmans and Manso (2011), and Dasgupta and 
 Piacentino (2015). In these models, a blockholder has access to private information about 
 firm value and may sell her block on negative information. The blockholder's ability to 
 trade on negative information and the manager's concern with the short-term stock price 
 cause the manager to be more concerned than he otherwise would be about the impact of 
 his actions on firm value and thereby improves governance. The focus of these papers is 
 on trading by an insider who has private information about firm value that is exogenous to 
 her trading. In contrast, in our model, the blockholder has no private information about 
 exogenous elements of corporate value. Instead, we study strategic trading by an investor 
 who can become active. Moreover, exit models all have a single round of trading, so they 
 cannot analyze feedback from prices to blockholder actions. 
 There is a related empirical literature that documents significant effects on stock prices 
 of large blockholder ownership transfers (Barclay and Holderness (1991)), of large CEO 
 ownership stakes (Lilienfeld-Toal and Ruenzi (2014)), and of shareholder activism in 
 the United States (Brav, Jiang, Partnoy, and Thomas (2008), Collin-Dufresne and Fos 
 (2015a)) and internationally (Becht, Franks, Grant, and Wagner (2017)). 
 Our paper is also related to two papers that study the relationship between investment 
 efficiency and information aggregation in large auctions (Atakan and Ekmekci (2014) and 
 Axelson and Makarov (2017)). In these papers, the fact that the payoff to the winner of 
 the auction depends on her future action can lead to equilibria where large auctions fail 
 to aggregate the dispersed information and prices become inefficient. The setup of these 
 papers is quite different from ours, as in their model no investor possesses all relevant 
 information regarding the action she is to take, but instead investment efficiency depends 
 on the information about the economic state revealed by the auction. Furthermore, these 
 papers only consider a single round of trading.7 
 The relationship between market liquidity and economic efficiency is related to the 
 ongoing debate about the optimal duration of the pre-disclosure period for 13D filers 
 (e.g., Bebchuk, Brav, Jackson, and Jiang (2013)). This is the period between the date at 
 which the investor exceeds the 5% ownership threshold and the date at which the 13D 
 must be filed. Shortening the period in which an activist can trade anonymously has the 
 effect of reducing cumulative noise trading during the period in which the activist can 
 trade anonymously. The relation is also central to the debate about insider trading rules 
 and, more generally, about required disclosure rules for the trading positions of significant 
 blockholders (e.g., Fishman and Hagerty (1992, 1995)). 
 3. MODEL 
 We analyze a Kyle model in which the strategic trader is a potential activist who can un- 
 dertake costly effort to influence the management of a firm and, hence, affect the value of 
 its stock. The trader has no private information about the exogenous value of the stock, 
 but has private information about her own position in the stock and, thus, is better in- 
 7Rostek and Weretka (2012) also investigate how the size of the market affects how auctions aggregate 
 dispersed information and the consequences for market liquidity and price informativeness. 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 ACTIVISM, STRATEGIC TRADING, AND LIQUIDITY 1435 
 formed about the value she will create.8 We assume there is some fixed date T at which 
 the trader must act so as to influence management (if she acts at all). Naturally, any action 
 quickly becomes public information, so we assume that the market observes at T whether 
 and to what extent the activist acts. Prior to T, the market is uncertain how many shares 
 the trader owns and, hence, is uncertain about the trader's intentions. The uncertainty 
 about the trader's intentions is resolved at T. Therefore, the trader has no private infor- 
 mation after T and cannot profitably trade after T. Consequently, we model trading as 
 stopping at T. Prior to T, the trader can profitably trade on her private information about 
 the number of shares she owns, as we will show. We assume trading is continuous during 
 the time interval [0, 7]. 9,10 
 After the activist acts at T, the stock trades at a share price v that incorporates the 
 market makers' expected value of the activist's effort. Of course, the activist's efforts may 
 only affect the company's operations with some lag, but we assume the market correctly 
 discounts the future cash flows into the share price v at date T. Denote by C(v) the cost 
 to the activist of achieving a share price of v.11 We assume C is lower semicontinuous and 
 takes values in [0, oo]. We define C(v) = oo when a value v is infeasible. Furthermore, we 
 assume 
 r lim C(i;) m 
 r lim 
 l>- > - oc,+oo y 
 Thus, C grows more than linearly at extreme values of v (or such values are infeasible). 
 Given she has accumulated XT = x number of shares at time T, the activist chooses effort 
 to maximize vx - C(v). The optimal value to the activist is 
 G(x) = supļtuc - C(v)}. (2) 
 V
 Because G is the supremum of a collection of affine functions, G is convex. By assumption
 (1), we can restrict attention to compact sets in the maximization problem in (2) and G is
 8 We assume the trader has no private information about aspects of the firm other than her own blockholding
 so as to focus on the effect of activism on market liquidity. However, in one example (Example 1 in Section 6),
 other private information can easily be incorporated (Collin-Dufresne and Fos (2015b)).
 9 Kyle (1985) shows that his discrete-time equilibrium converges to the equilibrium of his continuous-time
 model as the time periods become shorter and the number of time periods grows. We have not checked this
 convergence result for our model, but we conjecture that it would be true. Hence, we believe that our results
 are relevant in discrete time as well. However, the continuous-time model is substantially more tractable than
 the discrete-time model, so we work in continuous time.
 10In some applications, T might be a choice variable of the activist; for example, Carl Icahn first started
 agitating for Apple stock buybacks via tweets, an open letter to shareholders, and a meeting with Apple's CEO
 in the fall of 2013 after accumulating a large stake in Apple. There was no fixed date at which those activities
 had to occur. Allowing T to be a choice variable would be an interesting extension, but it is beyond the scope
 of this paper.
 11 A generalization of our model would be to allow the cost to depend on the blockholding x as C(v, x).
 Such a model was studied in one of our previous papers (Back, Li, and Ljungqvist (2015)). In that model, the
 asset value is binary with possible values vL <vH, the cost of generating the high value is c, and activism cannot
 be successful unless the block size is at least £, where B is exogenously given. So C(vH , x) = oo if x < B and
 C(vh, x) = c if x > B. We found that the minimum block size B played only a minor role in the equilibrium.
 If the blockholder desires to be active based on the block holding Xj- just before T and the block is not
 large enough for activism, then she will place a discrete order for B - XT~ at T. In equilibrium, the market
 knows in this circumstance that the blockholder will become active, so the block is priced at vH and there is
 no gain or loss on the trade at T. More generally, when C depends on x, we conjecture that the activist will
 purchase enough shares via a block trade at T to drive down the cost of activism as far as possible, meaning
 dC(v , XT)/dx = 0.
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1436 BACKETAL. 
 everywhere finite. This fact and the lower semicontinuity of C imply that the supremum 
 in (2) is attained at some value of v. Let 
 V(x) e argmax{iuc - C(u)}. (3) 
 V
 By a standard argument, V(x) is a subgradient of G at x.u Because G is convex, it is
 differentiate almost everywhere. Thus, V (x) = G'(x) almost everywhere. Given a block-
 holding of size x at the end of trading, it is optimal for the activist to exert effort to move
 the stock value to V(x). Thus, V(x) is the common value of shares to all traders after
 the activist's optimal expenditure of effort. Because V(x) is a subgradient of G at x, the
 common value of shares V (x) is also the marginal value of shares for the activist.
 Denote the number of shares owned by the strategic trader at each date t by X,. We as-
 sume that X0 is known only to the trader.13 Other market participants regard X0 as being
 normally distributed with mean fix and standard deviation ax. In addition to the strategic
 trader, there are noise traders in the market. Let Z, denote the cumulative number of
 shares purchased by noise traders through date t, with Z0 = 0. Assume Z is a Brownian
 motion with zero drift and instantaneous standard deviation a. Aggregate purchases by
 the strategic trader and noise traders are Y, = X, - X0 + Z,.
 All orders are submitted to risk-neutral competitive market makers. The market mak-
 ers therefore observe Y. They compete to fill orders, pushing the price to the expected
 value of V ( XT ) conditional on the history of orders. Let XJ denote the information con-
 veyed by the history of orders through date t. In principle, the price at each date could
 depend on the entire history of orders up to that date, but, as in Kyle (1985), we search
 for an equilibrium in which the cumulative order process Y, serves as a state variable.
 This means that the price at each date t is P(t, Y,) for some function P. Also, we look
 for an equilibrium in which the strategic trader's trades are of order dt, meaning that
 dX, = 6,dt for some stochastic process d.u Given P(-), the strategic trader chooses the
 trading strategy 0 to maximize
 E G(Xt) - j* P(t,Yt)0,dt' Xq^. (4)
 We assume the trader's information set at each date t consists of X0 and the history of
 noise trades until date t. Of course, the trader knows her own trades, so she also knows
 12Because V(x) attains the supremum in (2), we have G(x ) = xV(x) - C(V(x)), and by the definition of
 G, G(a) > aV(x ) - C(V(x)) for all a. Combining these two facts yields G(x) < xV(x) + G(a ) - aV(x) for all
 a, which is the definition of V(x) being a subgradient of G at x.
 13This assumption is consistent with U.S. rules on the disclosure of ownership stakes. Investors with activist
 intentions are required to submit a Schedule 13D filing to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
 only once their ownership reaches 5% of a targeted firm's outstanding shares, though they may have to disclose
 their stakes earlier, to the extent that they are subject to Section 13(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 Section 13(f) requires quarterly disclosures of long positions in U.S. stocks and options held by institutional
 investment managers with more than $100 million in assets under management. In between these quarterly
 filings, only the investment managers themselves know their positions. Smaller investment managers and those
 holding short positions do not have to disclose their positions at all.
 14This assumption is without loss of generality, because, as shown by Back (1992), if there are jumps or
 nonzero quadratic variations in the strategic trader's holdings X, the trader pays bid-ask spread costs on these
 components of the order flow of a size similar to those paid by noise traders. It is suboptimal for the strategic
 trader to pay these costs, and they can be avoided by taking X to be continuous and of finite variation, that is,
 by submitting very small trades dX ("very small" meaning of order dt).
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 ACTIVISM, STRATEGIC TRADING, AND LIQUIDITY 1437 
 the history of X until date t. The assumption that the trader knows the history of noise 
 trades is motivated by the fact that the trader should be able to observe the price and, as 
 we will show, price changes reveal aggregate orders dY, from which the trader can infer 
 dZ simply by subtracting dX. The strategic trader's value function is 
 J(t,x,y) = supE^G(XT) - ļ P(u, Yu)9udu'X, = x, T, = yj. (5)
 Here, the supremum is taken over strategies 9 that are adapted to the trader's information
 and that satisfy the mild "no-doubling" strategies condition (9) stated below. We define
 an equilibrium to be a pair ( P , 9) such that the trading strategy 9 maximizes (4) given P
 subject to (9) and such that
 P(t, Y,) = E[V(Xt) I Fj] (6) 
 for each t, given 9. This is the standard definition of equilibrium in a Kyle model, except 
 for the fact that the value V depends on XT in our model. 
 To ensure that there are no doubling-type strategies available (Back (1992)), we assume 
 the regularity condition 
 A{Xq - ZT) - ĻLX^'~' 
 Tl - A{Xq -i - ZT) - - ĻLX^'~' )J<00- <7) 
 where
 aSi + /i + ¿ (8) 
 and we define a trading strategy 9 to be admissible if and only if 
 E i V(jix + MX, - X0 + ZT)f dt < oo. (9) 
 Jo
 Condition (9) is used in verifying the optimalify of the strategic trader's strategy. It implies
 that the local martingale J^PdZ is actually a martingale.15
 4. EQUILIBRIUM 
 Theorem 1: The pricing rule 
 Pit,y) = E[VifjLx + AZT)'Zt = y] (10) 
 and trading strategy 
 15 For the connection to doubling strategies, see Back (1992), who points out that the martingale property 
 means that noise traders would not lose money on average if they could trade "at the midpoint of the bid-ask 
 spread."
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1438 BACKETAL. 
 constitute an equilibrium. In this equilibrium, the distribution of Y given market makers' 
 information is that of a Brownian motion with zero drift and standard deviation a. Moreover, 
 P{T, YT) = V(XT) with probability 1. The value function is 
 J(t,x,y) = ^^E^G(^^^^j'Zl = y^ + jE[G(px + AZT)'Zl = y'. (12) 
 The equilibrium price evolves as dP(t, Y,) = A(í, Y,) dY„ where Kyle's lambda is 
 , âP(t,y) 
 W'y)= , j,„ • (13> 
 dy j,„
 Furthermore, A(f, Y,) is a martingale on [0, T - Ô] for every 8 > 0, relative to the market
 makers' information set. The strategic trader's equilibrium position at time T is
 XT = px + -^{X0-px-ZT). (14)
 It follows that X j is normally distributed with unconditional mean E[A7] = p.x and uncon-
 ditional variance V[Xr] = (aVT + yJa2T + erf)2.
 We note the surprising finding that the strategic trader's strategy can be fully specified
 without specifying the cost function C. Thus, the trading strategy is independent of the
 cost function, at least as expressed as a function of the cumulative noise trading and the
 trader's accumulated shares. The strategy (11) is in fact linear in X, and Y,. We show in
 Appendix D that the trading strategy in a single-period model is linear when V is linear
 but not when V is nonlinear. Therefore, the trading strategy is not independent of the
 cost function in a single-period model. Of course, local linearity in continuous time dis-
 tinguishes continuous time from discrete time in other contexts as well (e.g., the consump-
 tion capital asset pricing model (CCAPM)). The cost function does affect the equilibrium
 pricing rule (10). Thus, if the trading strategy in the continuous-time model is expressed
 as a function of the price process, then it may depend on the cost function. Furthermore,
 the equilibrium effort expenditure will depend on the cost function both in continuous
 and in discrete time. 
 The theorem shows that the equilibrium trade of the potential activist depends on the 
 number of shares she owns as well as on the total number of shares bought by the trader 
 and noise traders. The potential activist will exert more effort and create more value the 
 more shares she owns, so the value of an additional share is higher the more shares she 
 already owns. Consequently, the number of shares she buys is higher the more shares 
 she already owns. This contrasts with the standard Kyle model, in which the equilibrium 
 trade is independent of the number of shares owned by the strategic trader, given the total 
 number of shares bought by the trader and noise traders. 
 In the remainder of this section, we sketch the proof of Theorem 1 with the aim of pro- 
 viding some intuition for the results. The complete proof is given in Appendix B. There 
 are two standard features of continuous-time Kyle models that we used to guess the form 
 of the equilibrium in Theorem 1. The first feature is that the strategic trader's trades are 
 not forecastable. On average, market makers do not expect the trader to trade in one 
 direction or the other. Cho (2003) calls this inconspicuous insider trading.16 Consequently, 
 ''Inconspicuous insider trading is a consequence of the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation and is, there- 
 fore, a necessary condition for equilibrium; see Back (1992). In Appendix D, we show that it is also a necessary 
 condition in a single-period model, when the strategic trader can condition her demand on the noise trades. 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 ACTIVISM, STRATEGIC TRADING, AND LIQUIDITY 1439 
 E[^fr] = (jlx. Furthermore, the unpredictability of orders from the strategic trader means 
 that the drift of Y is zero on its own filtration; that is, y is a martingale on its own filtra- 
 tion. Because Y has the same quadratic variation as Z, this martingale property implies 
 that Y must actually be a Brownian motion with the same standard deviation as Z. The 
 second feature is that the strategic trader trades in such a way that the share price equals 
 the marginal value at the terminal date. Otherwise, she is clearly leaving money on the ta- 
 ble. In our model, the "price equals marginal value" condition is that P(T, YT) = V(XT). 
 In the basic continuous-time Kyle model, the martingale property of Y is achieved by 
 having y be a Brownian bridge on the strategic trader's filtration. The market makers' 
 uncertainty about the ending point of the Brownian bridge (which is induced by their 
 uncertainty about the asset value) causes the Brownian bridge to be a Brownian motion 
 on the market makers' filtration. Here, we guess that y is a generalization of a Brownian 
 bridge on the strategic trader's filtration as described in the following lemma. 
 LEMMA 1: Let e be a standard normal random variable that is independent of Z. Let b 
 be a nonnegative constant and set a = ax/(2b + 1) 7. Then the solution Y of the stochastic 
 differential equation 
 dY, = ae~ bZ'T~_(* + 1)7' dt + dZ, (15) 
 dcf
 on the time interval [0, T) has the following properties : YT = lim, Y, exists almost surely
 (ax.), Y is a Brownian motion with zero drift and standard deviation a on its own filtration
 on [0, T], and, with probability 1,
 y ~ ae~ bZr (m (16) 
 ~ ŽT+Ī (m (16) 
 The proof of the lemma is provided in Appendix A. The stochastic differential equation 
 of a Brownian bridge is equation (15) with b = 0, so the process Y defined by equation 
 (15) is a generalization of a Brownian bridge. A Brownian bridge is a Brownian motion 
 conditioned to end at a particular point. With b = 0, the Brownian bridge Y in (15) ends 
 at as. Because (when b = 0) the ending point is normally distributed with zero mean and 
 variance equal to cr2T, the unconditional distribution of Y is that of a Brownian motion 
 with the same law as Z. In other words, y is a Brownian motion on its own filtration. 
 The lemma states that this is also true when 6^0. Thus, if we take the strategic trader's 
 strategy to be the drift in (15), then the property of inconspicuous insider trading will hold. 
 Note that for the unconditional distribution to be the same as that of Z, the right-hand 
 side of equation (16) must have variance equal to cr2T. This is equivalent to the condition 
 a = ii^{2b + 1)7" specified in the lemma. 
 Now we turn to the second standard feature of Kyle models mentioned above: the 
 "price equals marginal value" condition at date T. This condition implies a determin- 
 istic relation between YT and XT. Recall that the definition of YT is YT = XT - X0 + ZT. 
 Multiply (16) by b + 1, multiply the definition of YT by b, and add the two to eliminate 
 ZT. We obtain 
 (2 b -f- ')YT = b(Xj - Xq) as. 
 We achieve a deterministic relation between YT and XT by taking s to be the standard 
 normal (2f0 - (JLx)/ax and by taking a = bax. With these definitions, we have 
 (2b + l)YT = b(XT-ixx). (17) 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1440 BACKETAL. 
 The two conditions a = bax and a = cr^J(2b + ')T imply b - 1 /{A - 2). Substituting this 
 into (17) yields 
 Xt = ixx + AYT. (18) 
 Recall that the deterministic relation between YT and XT that we need is the price equals 
 marginal value condition, namely P(T,Yt ) = V(XT). From (18), we have V(XT) = 
 V(fix + AYt). Thus, if we define the function y P(T,y ) as P(T,y) = V(¡xx + Ay), 
 then the price equals marginal value condition will hold. This is achieved by (10) at t = T. 
 Because the price at t <T must be the expectation of the price at T, the formula (10) for 
 t < T follows from the formula at t = T and from the fact that Y has the same distribution 
 as Z. 
 The formulas for a, b, and e just derived imply that the drift of dY in (15) is the strategic 
 trading strategy (11) specified in the theorem. Also, substituting YT = XT - X0 + ZT in 
 (18) and rearranging yields (14). Furthermore, as in Back (1992), the strategic trader's 
 value function can be interpreted as the expected profit achieved by not trading until 
 maturity T, at which time she trades along the residual supply curve of the asset, buying 
 or selling shares until price equals marginal value. We use that characterization in the 
 proof of the theorem to derive the formula (12) for the value function. 
 Finally, to verify that (11) is an optimal trading strategy, we show in Appendix B that 
 the function J defined in (12) satisfies the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation 
 0 = SUp 
 el 2 J 
 In fact, we show that 
 - P Jx Jy = 0, (20a) 
 J, + '(T2Jyy = 0 (20b) 
 hold. The first of these two equations states that the coefficient on 6 in the optimization 
 problem in (19) is zero. Therefore, any 0 achieves the optimum. There are in fact many 
 optima to the trader's problem (taking the price process as given), as is also true in the 
 basic continuous-time Kyle model (Back (1992)). Any strategy is optimal provided only 
 that the price equals marginal value condition holds at the terminal date. The strategy 
 (11) has this property and, hence, is optimal. 
 There is an interesting difference between how the strategic trader responds to noise 
 trading in the standard Kyle model versus our model. In the standard model, the price 
 equals marginal value condition takes the form P(T, XT - X0 + ZT) = v, where v is the 
 exogenous value of the asset. Thus, any change in ZT must be offset by a one-for-one 
 change in the opposite direction for XT so as to realize the same price. In our model, the 
 price equals marginal value condition is P{T, XT - X0 + ZT) = V (XT). As just discussed, 
 this leads to the formula (14) for XT, in which the coefficient on - ZT is A /{A - 1) > 1. To 
 see why this must be true, suppose, for example, that we reduce ZT by 1 and increase XT 
 by 1. Then the date-T price will be unchanged. However, the marginal value V(XT) will 
 have increased, because owning an additional share will cause the activist to exert more 
 effort, increasing the value of shares. Thus, the activist has the incentive to buy more 
 shares. This induces a "greater than one-for-one" reaction to noise trading. 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 ACTIVISM, STRATEGIC TRADING, AND LIQUIDITY 1441 
 5. LIQUIDITY AND ACTIVISM 
 This section presents some general results regarding the effects of model parameters 
 on economic efficiency and market liquidity. The examples in the next section illustrate 
 these results. We measure economic efficiency by the initial price 7(0, 0). As remarked 
 before, we assume the market correctly discounts the eventual effects on firm cash flows 
 of the activist's effort at T into the date- 7 price V (XT), and 7(0, 0) is the expected value 
 of V(XT), so 7(0, 0) incorporates the value per share expected to be created by activism. 
 Let 7 denote 7(0, 0) as a function of the model parameters. We calculate the value per 
 share instead of the aggregate market value of shares outstanding, because (as in Kyle 
 (1985)) the number of shares outstanding is not a parameter of the model: that is, given 
 the per-share value function F( ), the number of shares outstanding does not affect the 
 equilibrium trading strategy or price process. On the other hand, the cost function C( ) 
 specifies the total cost to the activist, rather than the cost per share outstanding (which 
 would be irrelevant to the activist). Therefore, we have measures of value and cost that 
 are in different units, the former being per share and the latter being total. Hence, we 
 cannot compute the benefit of activism net of the activist's costs. As a result, we will 
 measure economic efficiency by the value per share 7(0, 0) rather than as value net of 
 costs. Fortunately, this should do little damage, because costs per share should in practice 
 be quite small compared to value. We base this argument on the fact that activists recoup 
 their costs from shareholdings that are typically a small percentages of the total number 
 of shares outstanding.17 
 We generally measure market illiquidity by the expected average lambda: 
 Ļe1 A (t,Y,)dt.
 Theorem 1 shows that À is a martingale (up to times arbitrarily close to time T), so the
 expected average lambda is equal to the initial lambda A(0, 0), which we denote A as
 a function of the parameters. Lambda measures the absolute price impact of trades. In
 examples in which absolute price changes are stationary over time, A(0, 0) is the natu-
 ral measure of illiquidity. However, there are other examples in which percentage price
 changes are stationary, and in those examples, some measure of the percentage price
 impact of trades is more natural. Example 3 in the next section, for instance, uses the
 percentage price impact at date 0 as the measure of illiquidity.
 The following theorem shows that the effects of the model parameters on efficiency and
 liquidity depend in several cases on whether V is convex or concave. Recall that when G is
 differentiable, V (x) = G'(x), so the convexity or concavity of V is determined by the third
 derivative of G. The function G is convex, but we cannot in general sign its third deriva-
 tive. However, because the domain of V is the entire real line (the activist's terminal block
 size XT can take any real value), a convex V must be unbounded above and a concave V
 must be unbounded below. In general, convexity seems more reasonable than concavity,
 because concavity (unbounded below) implies that the possible value destruction must
 17Collin-Dufresne and Fos (2015a) report that the average activist holds 7.51% of the target's outstanding
 shares when making her first public disclosure through a Schedule 13D filing. Collin-Dufresne, Fos, and Mu-
 ravyev (2107) show that when Schedule 13D filers use derivatives to increase their overall economic exposure
 to the stock, their average exposure increases to 8.70%. Given that after a 13D disclosure, stock prices incor-
 porate the expected effects of activism on firm value, the average Schedule 13D filer thus expects to recoup
 her costs of activism from a 7-8% toehold. 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1442 BACKETAL. 
 be unlimited, not respecting limited liability.18 We give several examples in Section 6 of a 
 convex V. We also give some examples (including the binary case) in which V is bounded 
 both above and below and, hence, neither convex nor concave. The proof of Theorem 2 
 is given in Appendix C. 
 Theorem 2: _ 
 (i) An increase in the amount of noise trading increases economic efficiency (dP/ da > 0) 
 ifVis convex and reduces economic efficiency ( dP/da < 0 )ifV is concave. 
 (ii) An increase in the expected initial block size has the following effects : 
 (a) It increases economic efficiency (dP / d px > 0). 
 (b) It reduces market liquidity ( âk/ d ļxx > 0 )if V is convex and increases market liquidity 
 (dk/d¡ix < 0 ) if V is concave. 
 (iii) An increase in uncertainty about the initial block size has the following effects : 
 (a) It increases economic efficiency ( dP/dax > 0) if V is convex and reduces economic 
 efficiency ( dP/dax < 0) if V is concave. 
 (b) It reduces market liquidity ( d'/dax > 0) if the following regularity condition is satis- 
 fied :
 lim V'(/ix + AaVfe)ee~e2/2 = 0. (*) 
 k|->00 
 To understand the role of convexity or concavity in Theorem 2, note that Theorem 1 
 implies
 P = E[V(px + AYT)] (21) 
 and 
 J = AE[V'(1ŁX + AYT)], (22) 
 where we regard YT as normally distributed with mean zero and variance equal to a2T. 
 The standard deviation of AYT is Aa-JŤ, which is an increasing function of both a and 
 ax. Thus, increases in those parameters create mean-preserving spreads in the distribu- 
 tion of i ix + AYt, which cause P to rise when_F is convex and to fall when V is concave. 
 Likewise, increases in those parameters cause À to rise when V is convex.19 We can in fact 
 say a bit more about how changes in parameters affect the distribution of V{ļlx + AYT). 
 Because V is monotone, the distribution of V {a + AYT) first-order stochastically domi- 
 nates the distribution of V(b -I- AYT) when a > b. This is a stronger statement than Theo- 
 rem 2(ii)(a). Also, when V is concave, a reduction in either a or ax leads to second-order 
 stochastic dominance.20 
 Theorem 2 does not provide a general result regarding the effect of a change in the 
 volatility a of noise trading on market illiquidity A, because a change in a has two effects 
 on A, and they can be in opposite directions. First, an increase in a causes the factor 
 18Of course, the standard Kyle (1985) model also implies a Gaussian distributed firm value, which does not 
 satisfy limited liability either. 
 "Note that V cannot be concave, because it is nonnegative and, hence, bounded below. 
 20This is a consequence of the following facts: (i) second-order stochastic dominance of Ça over Çb is equiv- 
 alent to E[«(£,4)] > E[u(£b)] for all monotone concave u; (ii) the composition u oV is concave when u is 
 monotone and concave, and V is concave; (iii) an increase in either a or c rx produces a mean-preserving 
 spread in the distribution of ¡xx + AYT. 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 ACTIVISM, STRATEGIC TRADING, AND LIQUIDITY 1443 
 A in equation (22) to fall. Second, an increase in a is a mean-preserving spread in the 
 distribution of [ix + AYT, so it causes the expectation in equation (22) to rise when V is 
 convex. Depending on which of these two effects is stronger, an increase in cr can cause 
 À either to fall (as in Kyle (1985)) or to rise. The latter occurs for certain parameter 
 values in Example 3 in Section 6. (However, as remarked before, it is more natural in 
 that example to measure liquidity by the percentage price impact.) An increase in noise 
 trading can also reduce market liquidity when neither V nor V is convex. This occurs 
 for some parameter values in Examples 4 and 5 in Section 6. The reason that greater 
 noise trading produces lower market liquidity in those examples is that greater uncertainty 
 about ZT implies greater uncertainty about XT (see equation (14)) and, hence, increases 
 information asymmetry about the ultimate asset value. This phenomenon does not occur 
 in the standard Kyle model in which the asset value is independent of XT. 
 When V is convex and satisfies the regularity condition (*), cross-sectional variation in 
 either fix or ax produces a negative cross-sectional relationship between market liquidity 
 and economic efficiency: efficiency is higher in less liquid markets. The reason is that a 
 greater likelihood for activism (due to changes in fxx or crx) increases the importance of 
 asymmetric information regarding the potential activist's intentions and makes the mar- 
 ket less liquid. This direction of causality (activism -> liquidity) is the opposite of that 
 with which the literature has been concerned. 
 Cross-sectional variation in efficiency and liquidity can also be due to cross-sectional 
 variation in the cost function C. In the examples in the next section, each cost function 
 depends on a productivity parameter. An increase in the activist's productivity generally 
 increases economic efficiency and generally reduces market liquidity (because asymmet- 
 ric information about the activist's intentions is more important when the activist is more 
 productive). Thus, cross-sectional variation in productivity also generally leads to a nega- 
 tive cross-sectional relationship between economic efficiency and liquidity. Again, this is 
 not the direction of causality emphasized in the literature. 
 6. EXAMPLES 
 We consider five examples. The equilibria are presented in Table I in terms of the func- 
 tions C, G, V, h, P, and A, and the parameters /ix, ax, cr, and A defined in Sections 3 
 and 4. The examples are distinguished by their cost functions C(v). The cost functions 
 include an additional productivity parameter if/ (and a second productivity parameter A 
 in Examples 4 and 5). Comparative statics with respect to all parameters are presented in 
 làbles II and III. 
 In the first example, V is affine. In the second and third, V is bounded below and 
 convex. In the fourth and fifth, V is bounded both above and below, and hence is neither 
 convex nor concave. 
 Example 1 - Quadratic Cost: This example is from Collin-Dufresne and Fos (2015b). 
 Effort is continuous and cost is quadratic. The cost function is C(v ) = (v - u0)2/(2i [/) for 
 constants u0 and if/ > 0. This implies that the marginal value function is V(x) = u0 + >px. 
 Thus, value can be either destroyed or created by the activist. The parameter if/ mea- 
 sures the activist's productivity (for either value creation or value destruction). The value 
 V ( X ) is affine in x, so it is both convex and concave. By Theorem 2, this implies that eco- 
 nomic efficiency is independent of the parameters cr and crx. Intuitively, it is independent 
 because the effects those parameters have on possible value creation, they also have on 
 possible value destruction. Also, market liquidity is independent of ļix. Therefore, the 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1444 BACKETAL. 
 TABLE I 
 Equilibrium in Five Examples. The Cost Functions C(v) and Productivity Parameters i/r and A 
 Are Defined in Section 6. The Parameters ax, <rf and A Are Defined in Section 3. The 
 Functions G, V, h, P, and A Are Calculated From the Cost Function as Explained in Sections 3 
 and 4 
 1. Quadratic Cost 2. Asymmetric Quadratic Cost 
 r>r ' / '2//oi' 00 ifv<V0, 
 C(v) r>r ' (V-Vo / '2//oi' )7(2«/0 • X2//0/X if ^  (v-Vo) X2//0/X L/(2'ļt) if v> ^ v0 
 G(x) v0x + i¡/x2/2 v0x + ý(x+)2/2 
 V(x) v0 + iļ/x Vo + ll/X+ 
 h(y ) vo + i ļ/ļix 4- i ¡/Ay i>o + + Ay)+ 
 Pit, y ) vo + il>ixx + <l>Ay + + + 
 Ht, y) 'li A 
 3. Exponential
 C(V) ±DlOg(£)-±(V-t>o) 
 G(x) vo(e*x - 1 )/<li 
 V(x) v0e*x 
 h(y) VoC4«nx+Ay) 
 P(t,y) V(iC*<lix+Ay+1A2a2<T-,y¡ 
 Ht, y) <l>AP(t,y) 
 4. Binary 5. Probabilistic Binary 
 00 if V $ {u0, Vo + A], 00 ifv<Vo, 
 C(v) 0 if f = Do, + (1 ~~ log(l ~ if yo S V < Vo + A, 
 c if v = Vo + A oo if v > Vo + A 
 'v0x if x<c/A, iv0x if a: < 0, 
 '(V0 + A)x-c ifx>c/A '(v0 + A)x-z(1-q-Ax/z) ifx>0 
 V( . v0 ifx< c/A, v0 ifxcO, 
 Vo + A 'ix>c/A v0 + A(l - t~Ax,z) ifjc>0 
 h() ivo ify< Ído if y < -px/A, 
 V(, + â otherwise ļuo + 4(1 - e'úx/z) iîy>-/ix/A 
 P(t, y) Uo + 4N(ü^^) vo + An(di)-AH(d2)c'Hlí'+Ay)+'''1ÁÍ,x2iT-')l2 
 Ht, y) An(ü^^)/<rVr^7 ^áAN(d2)^'l''lx'+Ay)+^A2'T2(T''>/2 
 only parameter that can produce cross-sectional variation in both efficiency and liquidity 
 in this example is the productivity parameter t (i, and variation in it produces a negative 
 cross-sectional relationship between efficiency and liquidity. 
 This symmetric quadratic example closely resembles the classic Kyle model in which the 
 terminal value is normally distributed. As in that model, the equilibrium price process is 
 a Brownian motion (on its own filtration), and Kyle's lambda is constant and increasing in 
 the signal-to-noise ratio <rx/cr. Kyle's lambda is also increasing in the activist's productiv- 
 ity if/. In fact, and unlike in the Kyle model, the limit of lambda when the signal-to-noise 
 ratio goes to zero is strictly positive: lim<^/a.^0 A = </>. This illustrates the difference be- 
 tween the two models. Even if there is very little private information at the start of the 
 model, there is private information later in the model because only the activist knows her 
 own trades, which determine her incentives for activism and so ultimately determine the 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 ACTIVISM, STRATEGIC TRADING, AND LIQUIDITY 1445 
 TABLE II 
 Economic Efficiency Comparative Statics. The Signs Are the Signs of the Partial Derivatives 
 of P With Respectto the Parameters. A 0 Indicates That the Partial Derivative Is 0. The 
 Partial Derivative dP / d hx Is Positive in All Cases, by Theorem 1, so That Partial Derivative Is 
 Omitted From the Table. The Value Function V Is Affinejn Example 1 and Convex in 
 Examples 2 and 3, so the Signs of the Partial Derivatives of P With Respect to a- and ax Are 
 Given by Theorem 2 for Those Examples 
 1. Quadratic Cost 2. Asymmetric Quadratic Cost 
 (T 0 + 
 (Tx 0 + 
 + if 1LX > 0,
 - if Hx < 0
 3. Exponential
 CT + 
 (Tx + 
 <A + 
 4. Binary 5. Probabilistic Binary 
 + if ll/Hx <1, + if fix < 
 1- if^/xjt>l 1- iīļJLx>ļl*x 
 + Íf^/Xx<l, + if flx<fl*x, 
 - if l¡/fJLx >1 - if ļXx > lX*x 
 (A + + 
 A + + 
 asset value. The importance of this private information depends on the activist's produc- 
 tivity if/, which is the lower bound on lambda. 
 Example 2 - Asymmetric Quadratic Cost: In this example, value can be created (v > 
 v0) but cannot be destroyed. The cost function is 
 Ciwlsf00 if w < Wo, 
 ļO - v0)2/(2ip) ifv>i>o 
 for constants v0 and i/r > 0. Again, if/ measures the activist's productivity. The marginal 
 value function is V(x) = u0 + <A*+- The value V(x) is convex in x, so Theorem 2 implies 
 that economic efficiency is improved by increases in either cr or ax. In this example, a 
 change in the amount of noise trading causes economic efficiency and liquidity (1/À) to 
 move in the same direction. However, changes in /xx, <rx, or if/ cause economic efficiency 
 and liquidity to move in opposite directions. 
 Even though the activist can only create and cannot destroy value in this example, 
 the trading strategy (expressed as a function of cumulative order flow and the strategic 
 trader's position) is identical to that in Example 1 (and, in fact, is the same in all exam- 
 ples). The price and Kyle's lambda do, however, depend on the cost function. To illustrate 
 the differences between Examples 1 and 2, we plot two (randomly generated) paths of 
 noise trades and the corresponding activist trades, equilibrium price, and Kyle's lambda 
 in Figures 1 and 2. Figure 1 shows a case where the noise traders are net cumulative sell- 
 ers of the stock, whereas Figure 2 shows a path where cumulative trades by noise traders 
 are buys.
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1446 BACKETAL. 
 TABLE III 
 Market Liquidity Comparative Statics. The Signs Are the Signs of the Partial Derivatives of ā 
 With Respect to the Parameters, Except for Example 3 (Exponential). For Example 3, the 
 Signs are the Signs of the Partial Derivatives of á/P with Respect to the Parameters 
 1. Quadratic Cost 2. Asymmetric Quadratic Cost 
 1JLX 0 + 
 a - - 
 Vx + + 
 <A + + 
 3. Exponential
 fXx 0 
 (J - 
 dx + 
 * + 
 4. Binary 5. Probabilistic Binary 
 + if ^ļJLx < 1 » -h if /Xjc < , 
 M x - if «Am* >1 - if px > Px 
 Í+ if (px - l/'A)2 > T<r2A2(A - 1), Í+ if(2 - yl + ^)N(ď2)>(ď, + ^)n(ď2), 
 a '- if (fix - l/</02 < Ta2A2(A - 1) if(2-A+^)N(d2)<(d1 + ^)n(d2) 
 CT* + + 
 Í+ if i l/AaVr r'(d2 ) < (1 - iļ/A(rVTd2)N(d2), 
 + 1- if ^AaVŤn(52) Xl - *AaVTď2mď2) 
 A + + 
 Independent of the (symmetric or asymmetric) cost function, the strategic trader trades 
 in the opposite direction of the noise traders with an amplification as discussed before. 
 The figures illustrate the amplification. When the strategic trader accumulates a positive 
 number of shares (Figure 1), prices ultimately reflect the positive value creation; thus, the 
 prices with symmetric and asymmetric cost functions converge to the same value. Also, in 
 that case, Kyle's lambda in the asymmetric model converges to the constant price impact 
 that prevails throughout in the symmetric cost function model. 
 However, when the strategic trader accumulates a large short position (Figure 2), the 
 price and price impact processes look very different in the two models. In the asymmet- 
 ric model, the market infers that the short position from the net short order flow and 
 price converges to v0 as the market correctly expects the trader not to expend any effort. 
 Correspondingly, Kyle's lambda converges to zero, because, given that the large negative 
 position the trader is anticipated to hold, a marginal increase in her position would not be 
 expected to lead to significant positive value creation. However, in the symmetric model, 
 the market infers from the net cumulative short position that the activist will destroy value 
 at maturity. The market impounds this negative value in the price. Kyle's lambda remains 
 constant and strictly positive in the symmetric model. 
 In this example, one can explicitly compute the probability of the insider "walking 
 away," defined as her choosing not to exert any effort at T, as prob (V(Xt) = v0) = 
 prob(.XY < 0) = N( 
 <j-Jt ít2t+ <Ą 
 is independent of the activism technology, the probability of walking away will depend on 
 it, through the function V(x). 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 ACTIVISM, STRATEGIC TRADING, AND LIQUIDITY 1447 
 Figure 1. - Informed, uninformed and total order flow, prices, and Kyle's lambda in the symmetric and 
 asymmetric quadratic cost function examples: noise traders are net sellers. 
 Example 3 - Exponential: This is another example of a convex V in which value can 
 be created but not destroyed. For parameters v0 > 0 and if/ > 0, the cost of effort is 
 1 / v' 1 
 - vlogl ) -(v - l>o) ifv>Vo, 
 C(v)=< if; 'v0/ iff 
 OO if V < Uo- 
 This implies V(x) = VqQ*x. Again, if/ measures the activist's productivity. In general, when 
 <rx is small, the partial derivative dA/d cr is small. In this example, V is convex, and 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1448 BACKETAL. 
 FIGURE 2. - Informed, uninformed and total order flow, prices, and Kyle's lambda in the symmetric and 
 asymmetric quadratic cost function examples: noise traders are net buyers. 
 when ax is small, the effect of a change in a on A is less than the effect of a change 
 in a on the expectation in (22). Consequently, an increase in noise trading a causes 
 market liquidity (as measured by 1/À) to fall.21 However, as remarked in Section 5, it 
 21 The precise condition for this to occur is that 
 „ I ý(A - 1)A 
 ax < AcrT „ 
 Y 2(1 + i I*A2o-2T) , , , 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 ACTIVISM, STRATEGIC TRADING, AND LIQUIDITY 1449 
 is more natural to measure market illiquidity in this example by the percentage price 
 impact, À/P. In fact, the percentage price impact is constant in this example, and it is 
 a decreasing function of a. Measuring liquidity in this way, cross-sectional variation in 
 a produces a positive cross-sectional relationship between efficiency and liquidity, and 
 cross-sectional variation in ax or if/ produces a negative cross-sectional relationship be- 
 tween efficiency and liquidity. Increases in ¡xx increase efficiency but have no effect on 
 liquidity.
 Even though the prior uncertainty is normal and, thus, the strategic trader's cumu-
 lative holdings are normally distributed, the endogenous terminal value of the stock
 in this example is log-normally distributed. The stock price follows a geometric Brow-
 nian motion process as in the Black and Scholes (1973) model. The parameters of
 the process are endogenously determined by the primitives of the model (the signal-
 to-noise ratio (tx/(t, the noise trader volatility, and the productivity parameter). This
 model is similar to the Kyle model with an exogenous log-normally distributed termi-
 nal value presented in Back (1992). As with an exogenous log-normal value, the per-
 centage price impact is constant. However, the constant percentage price impact ("re-
 turn impact") is not the same as when the value is exogenous. Indeed, in our model,
 price impact depends not only on the signal-to-noise ratio crx/ a, but also on the activist's
 productivity. As discussed for price impact in Example 1, when the signal-to-noise ratio
 goes to zero, the percentage price impact in this example remains strictly greater than
 zero. 
 Example 4 - Binary: This example is from Back, Li, and Ljungqvist (2015). The model 
 of activism is the same as that studied in the context of a single-period Kyle model by 
 Maug (1998). The outcome is binary (success or failure). Success comes at an effort cost 
 of c. The value of the stock is v0 in the absence of effort and v0 + A for a constant A > 0 if 
 effort is exerted. It is optimal to exert effort if XTA > c. The value V ( x ) is a step function, 
 equal to u0 for x < c/A and equal to u0 + A for x > c/A. Therefore, it is neither convex 
 nor concave. In the equilibrium price and in Kyle's lambda, the parameter c appears only 
 in the ratio c/A. It is convenient to define if/ = A/c, which is the value creation per unit 
 cost. Then if/ and A measure the activist's productivity. 
 In this example, cross-sectional variation in either of the productivity parameters if/ or 
 A produces a negative cross-sectional relationship between efficiency and liquidity, be- 
 cause higher productivity increases both efficiency and adverse selection. However, cross- 
 sectional variation in either ¡ix or crx produces a negative cross-sectional relationship be- 
 tween efficiency and liquidity if and only if A¡xx < c. The condition A/xx < c means that 
 the expected initial stake ¡xx is too small on its own to justify the cost of activism. In this 
 case, a marginal increase in /xx increases adverse selection, because it moves the probabil- 
 ity of activism from below 50% toward 50%. Hence, it reduces liquidity (while increasing 
 economic efficiency). Also, when Aļix < c, a marginal increase in crx increases economic 
 efficiency, because it makes the expected initial stake ¡jlx a less reliable predictor of the 
 actual initial stake X0. An increase in <jx always reduces market liquidity in this example, 
 so it causes liquidity and efficiency to move in opposite directions when A/jlx < c. 
 Cross-sectional variation in a can produce either a negative or a positive cross-sectional 
 relationship between economic efficiency and market liquidity. There are four possible 
 outcomes of a change in noise trading volatility, depending on the inequalities shown 
 in Tables II and III. The four possibilities are illustrated in Figure 3. An increase in the 
 standard deviation a of noise trading increases economic efficiency if and only if A¡íx < c. 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1450 BACKETAL. 
 3| 
 2 Efficiency - 
 I Liquidity - ^ 
 1 1 I ^ ~ Efficiency - - 
 ^ V 
 ? 0 
 ^ /" - Efficiency + 
 -i I Liquidity + - 
 ! Efficiency + 
 -2 Liquidity - ~~-- 
 ~0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 
 cr
 Figure 3. - Effect of an increase in noise trading in the binary example. The signs indicate the effect of an
 increase in noise trading cr on P (efficiency) and 1/Ā (liquidity). Increasing noise trading increases economic
 efficiency when 1lx > c/A and reduces economic efficiency when nx < c/A. Increasing noise trading increases
 market liquidity when Iju.* - c/4| is below a threshold depending on u that is specified in Table III and reduces
 market liquidity when '¡xx - c/A' is above the threshold. In this example, crx = 0.1 and T = 1.
 In that case, the potential activist must, on average, acquire shares in the market to make
 activism worthwhile. An increase in noise trading volatility makes it easier to acquire the
 necessary shares. On the other hand, if the expected initial stake is high, higher noise
 trading volatility makes it easier for the trader to unwind her stake and exit rather than
 incurring the cost to become active, so an increase in noise trading reduces economic
 efficiency. These are the effects described by Maug (1998).
 However, unlike in Maug's one-period model, the effect of a change in noise trading
 volatility on market liquidity depends on the absolute size of the expected initial stake
 relative to a threshold (shown in Table III) that depends on cr, ax, and T. When the
 absolute expected initial stake is large, it is unlikely that the potential activist will trade
 enough to change the profitability of activism: if fix - c/A is positive and large, it is unlikely
 that she will sell enough shares so that XT < c/A; if fix - c/A is negative and large in
 absolute value, it is unlikely that she will buy enough shares so that XT > c/A. Thus,
 Kyle's lambda is low: the market is highly liquid. In this circumstance, if noise trading
 increases, the probability that the potential activist will trade out of an existing position
 or into a new position increases, and it increases so much that market liquidity actually
 falls.
 The equilibrium price in this example is the base value v0 plus the value A of activism
 multiplied by the conditional probability that activism will occur. Activism occurs if and
 only if
 c/A - fix
 IT - 
 A
 Market makers compute the probability of activism at each date t based on YT being
 normally distributed with mean Y, and standard deviation cr-jT - t. Equations (18) and
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 ACTIVISM, STRATEGIC TRADING, AND LIQUIDITY 145 1 
 (14) imply
 Yt > C,A~>ix «=>. XT>-
 A A 
 <=► ZT<X0-ixx + ^^(^x-^j. (23) 
 Of course, the condition XT > c/A is necessary and sufficient for exerting effort to be 
 optimal for the strategic trader. Condition (23) shows that the trader exerts effort if and 
 only if noise traders sell enough shares (or do not buy too many shares). Selling by noise 
 traders makes the asset cheaper for the potential activist and, hence, induces her to buy 
 shares and become active. 
 Example 5 - Probabilistic Binary: Many activist campaigns have a specific objective, 
 and the outcome can be expressed as success or failure. For example, activists may attempt 
 to block a merger, to force a company to be put up for sale, to oust a CEO, to remove 
 anti-takeover provisions, and to initiate a dividend. However, it may be unrealistic to 
 assume, as in Example 4, that the amount of effort required to achieve success is known. 
 To capture uncertainty about the outcome, success is instead viewed as a random event in 
 this example, the probability of which depends on the activist's effort. Because the activist 
 is risk-neutral, she cares about the expected asset value, which is v0 + Ap, where p denotes 
 the probability of success and A is the value created by success. Thus, instead of modeling 
 the stock value v as being either v0 or v0 + A, we model it as being v0 + Ap, where p ranges 
 continuously between 0 and 1. Assume that the cost of achieving a probability of success 
 equal to p is
 c[p + (1 - p)log(l - p)]
 for a constant c > 0. Therefore, the cost of achieving an expected asset value equal to v is
 oo if v < l>o. 
 C(v) = • c log^l - - J if vo < v < v0 + A, 
 OO if V>Vq + A. 
 The activist's optimal effort implies a probability of success of 1 - q~AXt/c, Thus, 
 V(x) = v0 + {1 -e~Ax/c)A. 
 The function V is bounded below (by u0) and bounded above (by v0 + A), and hence is 
 neither uniformly convex nor uniformly concave. As in Example 4, the cost parameter c 
 appears in the equilibrium price and in Kyle's lambda only through the ratio c/A. As in 
 Example 4, define if/ = A/c, so the activist's productivity is measured by if/ and A. 
 The equilibrium is described in Table I in terms of 
 , def fix + Ay 
 d' , - 
 Aos/T -t 
 and 
 d2 = d' - iļjAo" y/ T - t . 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1452 BACKETAL. 
 The comparative statics are described in Tables II and III in terms of dx, which is dx 
 with t = y = 0 and d2 - dx - i '>A<r-JŤ, and in terms of ¡x*x defined as follows. Set g(x) = 
 N(x)/n(x). It is well known that g is a strictly increasing function that maps the real line 
 onto the positive reals. Define 
 The comparative statics in this example are very similar to those in Example 4. There 
 are only three differences. First, the condition fxx<c/ A that determines some of the signs 
 in Example 4 is replaced by ¡xx < /a*. Second, the condition that determines when an 
 increase in a increases market liquidity takes different forms in the two examples. Third, 
 an increase in the productivity parameter i (i does not always reduce market liquidity in 
 this example. The condition under which it reduces market liquidity is shown in Table III. 
 7. DISCUSSION 
 There are many different types of activism technologies, including binary forms of ac- 
 tivism, those with non-binary effort, and those resulting in a non-binary effect on firm 
 value. For example, when an activist seeks to increase payouts, it arguably requires more 
 effort to induce a larger change in payout policy, which leads to a larger effect on firm 
 value. When an activist seeks to influence whether an M&A deal is completed, the out- 
 come is likely to be binary but the effort expended by the activist is continuous. Agitating 
 for the replacement of the CEO or the board of directors has similar features. In these 
 cases, the probability that the activist is successful is an increasing function of her continu- 
 ous effort. Large-sample evidence about heterogeneity in activism technology is reported 
 by Brav et al. (2008), who classify hedge-fund activism campaigns by the activists' stated 
 goals. These goals could be used to identify the properties of the activism technologies 
 discussed in Theorem 2. 
 One implication of our model is that most of the comparative statics depend on these 
 properties. This implication is important to regulators and empirical researchers alike. 
 Consider, for example, a change in uncertainty about the activist's initial block size. The 
 model shows that the effect of this uncertainty on economic efficiency can switch from 
 positive to negative, depending on the activism technology. The model therefore suggests 
 that regulators need to consider what types of activism technologies would be affected by 
 a proposed change (e.g., activists' engagements in M&A deals or activists' campaigns to 
 change payout policies). Moreover, the model shows that empirical research that pools 
 observations for different activism technologies when evaluating the effects of changes in 
 uncertainty about the initial block size could fail to find significant effects even if uncer- 
 tainty matters. 
 Another implication of the model is that the role of noise trading is more nuanced than 
 previously thought. Early models of corporate governance typically do not differentiate 
 between noise trading and market liquidity. Our model, however, shows that an increase 
 in noise trading may not lead to an increase in market liquidity (see Example 4). Similarly, 
 the effect of noise trading on economic efficiency can be either positive or negative, de- 
 pending on the activism technology. This observation is important in assessing the impact 
 of a regulatory change. The recent legal debate about changing the length of the trading 
 period during which activists can trade anonymously is a case in point (e.g., Bebchuk et al. 
 (2013)). Such a change can be viewed as a change in noise trading because in our model, 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 ACTIVISM, STRATEGIC TRADING, AND LIQUIDITY 1453 
 what matters is cr2T - the cumulative amount of noise trading over the entire trading pe- 
 riod. So from the perspective of a potential activist, reducing the trading horizon T is 
 isomorphic to reducing noise trading volatility and keeping T fixed. Similarly, a Tobin tax 
 on stock transactions might reduce the number of traders in the market and thus lead to 
 a reduction in noise trading.22 
 Finally, the model shows how changes in disclosure rules that lead to changes in the 
 precision of disclosed ownership information can affect economic efficiency and market 
 liquidity. Consider, for example, Section 13(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
 which requires quarterly disclosures of long (but not of short) positions in U.S. stocks 
 and options held by institutional investment managers with more than $100 million in 
 assets under management. In between these quarterly filings, only the investment man- 
 agers themselves know their precise positions. Form 13(f) filings thus constitute at best 
 noisy signals about an investment manager's block size. Changes to Section 13(f) - say, to 
 the frequency of 13(f) filings or the inclusion of short positions - could, therefore, affect 
 investors' uncertainty about an activist investor's initial toehold. 
 We conclude the discussion by noting that the model's implications are not limited to 
 the interaction of noise, hedge-fund activism, and liquidity. Indeed, the implications ex- 
 tend to any setup in which a large shareholder, who can trade anonymously in secondary 
 markets, can change the firm's value by expending costly effort. For instance, there is 
 an empirical literature that documents significant effects on stock prices of large block- 
 holder ownership transfers (Barclay and Holderness (1991)) and of large CEO ownership 
 stakes (Lilienfeld-Toal and Ruenzi (2014)). Moreover, large institutional investors, such 
 as Norges Bank (which manages the Norwegian sovereign wealth fund that owns minority 
 shareholder positions in more than 9,000 firms across the world) and CalPERS (a large 
 public-sector pension fund in the United States), change their holdings through trading 
 in financial markets and engage actively in the governance of the firms in which they hold 
 positions.23
 8. CONCLUSION 
 This paper revisits the classic question of the relationship between liquidity and eco- 
 nomic efficiency. We develop a dynamic version of the Kyle model in which an activist 
 trader can affect the liquidation value of the firm by expending costly effort. Market liq- 
 uidity affects activism, because it affects the ease with which the potential activist can 
 either accumulate a stake or take the Wall Street walk. One result that contrasts with 
 the previous literature is that the relationship between market liquidity and activism is 
 independent of the activist's initial stake for a broad set of activism technologies. 
 In our setup, activism also affects market liquidity, because the activist's private in- 
 formation about her own intentions (which arises in our model because of the activist's 
 private information about the size of her blockholding) creates adverse selection for mar- 
 ket makers. This second direction of causality has received little if any attention in the 
 prior literature. One effect of this causality is that an increase in noise trading can reduce 
 market liquidity, because it increases activist trading and, hence, increases information 
 asymmetry regarding the activist's blockholding. 
 22 A Tobin tax on stock transactions would likely have other effects on financial markets, the investigation of 
 which is beyond the scope of our paper. 
 23For an example of Norges Bank's corporate governance activities, see https://www.nbim.no/en/ 
 responsibility/ownership/. 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1454 BACKETAL. 
 Our model makes a number of simplifying assumptions that could be interesting to re- 
 lax in future research. First, we assume that the horizon at which the activist's stake is 
 disclosed is fixed and common knowledge. Depending on the application, it might be in- 
 teresting to endogenize the horizon. In the United States, for example, activists have to 
 disclose their stake to regulators when it reaches a regulatory threshold of 5%. Second, we 
 assume that the technology of the activist is common knowledge and that the only source 
 of asymmetric information is the stake of the activist in the target firm. It might be inter- 
 esting to consider cases where the activist also has some private information about her 
 technology, for example, her productivity. Third, and related, we assume that all uncer- 
 tainty about the firm value is resolved at maturity. An interesting extension might consider 
 that, when becoming actively involved with the firm, the activist also gains new private in- 
 formation about the likelihood of a successful outcome of the activism campaign. Fourth, 
 we assume that the activist is risk-neutral. Generalizing to a risk-averse activist would 
 introduce a trade-off between activism, which calls for a large stake, and diversification 
 benefits. Fifth, we assume that the activist only trades shares. It would be interesting to 
 understand what, if any, position in derivatives an activist would like to take. Last, we as- 
 sume that there is only one activist. It would be interesting to analyze an extension where 
 several activists, possibly with different technologies, compete for the target firm. This 
 could give insights into so-called wolf-pack activism campaigns. 
 APPENDIX A: PROOF OF LEMMA 1 
 Define U, = as - bZt. We use filtering to establish the proposition. As is customary, we 
 use the caret symbol (') to denote conditional expectations given Fj . We want to compute 
 (],. Let X(t) denote the conditional variance of U, given FJ . We have UQ = as, U0 = 0, 
 and ¿(0) = a2. The stochastic process U evolves as 
 dU, = -bdZ,. 
 The observation process is Y and 
 1 h I 1 
 dY,= - 
 T-t T-t 
 The innovation process is W defined by W0 = 0 and 
 1/ 1 ~ b+' ' 1/1 - ' 
 dW, = -[ dY, - --U, ~ dt + -X-Y, b+' dt) ' = -( - -(U, - U,) - dt + dZ, ' ). (A.1) 
 <7 ' 1 - t 1 - t / <T '1 - t / 
 From Kallianpur (1980, Equation (10.5.9)), the filtering equation is 
 dÛ, = i ( 'pz} - ba2} dWt. (A.2) 
 From Kallianpur (1980, Equation (10.5.10)), the conditional variance evolves as 
 dX(t) X{t)2 2 bX(t) 
 dt ~ (T - t)2a2 T - t K' } 
 The ordinary differential equation (ODE) (A.3) with initial condition X(0) = a2 is sat- 
 isfied by X(t) = (T - t)a2/T. For this function X(-), the left-hand side of (A.3) is -a2/T, 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 ACTIVISM, STRATEGIC TRADING, AND LIQUIDITY 1455 
 and the right-hand side is 
 a4 Iba2 a 2 / a 2 ' a 2 
 ~a2T2 + T ~~T'~02T~ J ~ T' 
 using the definition a = <rj{2b + ')T for the last equality. Thus, the conditional variance 
 of U, is (T - t)a2/T. Consequently, the filtering equation (A.2) simplifies to 
 dû, = ^ (y ~ bcr2^ dW, = (b+ 1 )adW„
 using the definition a = cry/ {2b + 1 )T again for the last equality. Because UÜ = WÜ = 0,
 this equation implies that U = (b+ì)aW. Equation (A.1) for the innovation process now
 becomes 
 dW, = Ì (dY, + ( y, - <rWt) d?j .
 This equation is satisfied by W = Y ¡a. Thus, Y/a is the innovation process. The inno-
 vation process is a standard Brownian motion on Fy, so Y is a Brownian motion with
 standard deviation a on Fy. Moreover, we have
 dÛt = {b + 1 )adW, = (b + 1) dY„
 so Û, = (b + 1)Y,. Because Y is a Brownian motion on Fy, the limit YT = lim,^r Y, exists
 almost surely, and we have UT = (b + 1 )YT, which is the same as (16).
 APPENDIX B: PROOF OF THEOREM 1 
 We need to verify the optimality of the trading strategy (11). As in Section 4, define 
 h(z) = V (iix + Az). Define 
 g(x, y ) = sup Í (V{x-y + z)~ h{z )) dz. 
 y Jy
 Because y = y is feasible in this optimization problem, we have g(x, y) > 0 for all
 (x,y). The solution to the optimization problem is given by the first-order condition
 V(u + y*(u)) = h(y*(u)) as
 r(M)=x~r (B,1) 
 Thus,
 g{x,y)= f (1 V{x-y + z)-h{z))dz . (B.2)
 Jy
 Substituting the definition of h and V = G' in (B.2), it is straightforward to calculate that
 g(x, y) = -i + + Ay) ~ G (B-3) 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1456 BACKETAL. 
 This implies that 
 gAx, y ) = - V(x), 
 gy(x, y ) = V (fix + Ay) - 
 Thus,
 gx(x, y) + gy(x, y) = V (/ix + Ay) - V (x) = h(y)-V (x). (B.4) 
 Furthermore, the monotonicity of V implies that gx and gy are bounded on bounded 
 rectangles.
 The function J defined in (12) is given by
 J{T, x, y) = G(x) + g(x, y),
 and, for t < T, set
 J(t, x, y) = G(x) + E[g(x, y + Z-r-Z,) ' 7f' (B.5)
 From this definition and (B.3), we see that J is as stated in (12). Because gx and gy are
 bounded on bounded rectangles, we can use the bounded convergence theorem to justify
 interchanging differentiation and expectation, and thereby obtain
 Mi,x,y) = I JFf], 
 J.tt.x.y, = E[V (fi, + A{y+ ZT - Z,>) 'Tf] - ē[f ( 1 ~ y J" Z,) ~ **' ) | Tf'
 = PO.y) - E {y^-y-Zr + Z,)-^ i
 Thus,
 J At, x, y) + Jy(t, x, y) = P(t, y). (B.6) 
 Furthermore, 
 J(t, x, Zt) = G(x) + E[g(x, ZT) I Ff], 
 which is an Fz martingale. Applying Itô's formula and equating the drift to zero gives 
 Jl(t,x,y) + ^a2Jyy(t,x,y) = 0. (B.7) 
 Consider an arbitrary trading strategy. Using Itô's formula and substituting (B.6) and 
 (B.7), we obtain 
 J(T, XT, Yt) = /(0, X0, Y0) + f dJ
 Jo
 = /(0, Xq, Yq) + f P(t,Y,)0tdt+ f Jy{t,X„Y,)dZt.
 Jo Jo 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 ACTIVISM, STRATEGIC TRADING, AND LIQUIDITY 1457 
 The no-doubling conditions (7) and (9) ensure that 
 E f Jy{t, X,, Y,) dZ, = 0. 
 Jo
 Therefore, rearranging and taking expectations yields
 J(0,X0,0) = e[j(T,Xt, Yt)-1T Pit, Y,)6,dt .
 Because g > 0, we have J(T, XT, YT) > G(XT). Hence,
 /(0,*o,0) > E^G(Xr) - ļTp(t, Y,)etd í]. (B.8)
 This shows that /(0, X0, 0) is an upper bound on the strategic trader's expected value.
 The bound is achieved by a strategy if and only if g(XT, YT ) = 0.
 Now consider the strategy (11). For this strategy, the lemma implies (see (18)) that
 XT = ¡xx + AYt, which implies from the definition of h that V(XT) = h(YT). In turn,
 this implies (from the definition of y* in equation (B.l)) that y*(XT - YT ) = YT and
 g{XT, Yt) = 0. Thus, the strategy (11) is optimal.
 APPENDIX C: PROOF OF THEOREM 2 
 First, we establish the comparative statics óf economic efficiency. From (21), we have 
 p = e[f {¡xx + AoVr e)], 
 where e is a standard normal variable. It follows (since V'(x) > 0 Vac) that 
 f)~P
 - = E [V'(fjLx + AoVŤe)] > 0.
 If V is convex, then, for all e e (- oo, oo), we have
 AasFŤéV' (fix + A<r*JŤ e) > V(¡xx + Aa-JŤ e) - V(/xx).
 If V is concave, then we have the opposite inequality. Also, from the definition of A,
 A(tVŤ = oVŤ + Jcr2T + a2x,
 which is an increasing function of a and also an increasing function of ax. Thus, when V
 is convex,
 £_EK(*+wf.,](*£ï>)
 * ^Tf 1 51 [n* * + A"^e) - nil")] 1 Ł °-
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1458 BACKETAL. 
 where the last inequality follows by Jensen's inequality. When V is concave, we obtain the 
 opposite inequality. The same reasoning produces the results for dP / â ax. 
 Now we establish the comparative statics of market liquidity. From (22), 
 /+00 •oo  V (/¿* + AaVTe)n(e)de.
 •oo 
 It follows that 
 rfX p+oo 
 àflx J- oo 
 So dk/dļix > 0 if V is convex, and the opposite inequality holds if V is concave. Further- 
 more, 
 dX. âÁ. C 
 dax do-xJ^ ' 
 Note that 
 r V" {¡ix + AvJTi)AvJ fen(e) dl = í*°° £n(e) ¿e. 
 J -00 J - oo 
 Using this fact, integration by parts, and assumption (*), we obtain 
 J- f+ V"(fix + Aa-JŤ €)AaVŤ en(e) de = - J- f+ V'(¡xx + AaVfe) d^e)^ ^ de
 J- 00 J- 00 ^ 
 /+00 ■00  V'(l*>x + Aa-JŤ e)[e2 - l]n(e) de. ■00
 Thus,
 = V'(fix + Aa-VĪ€)€2ti(e)de. u<Jx d(Tx J -oo
 Since V'(x) >OVx and d A /dax > 0, it follows that
 d' 
 dax
 APPENDIX D: THE ONE-PERIOD MODEL 
 Here, we consider the one-period model where the large trader starts with some posi- 
 tion X0, known only to her, and trades once to choose Xi = X0 + 0 so as to maximize her 
 objective function 
 E[G(Xi)-dP(Y)'X0,Z]. (D.l) 
 Recall that 
 G(x) = sup{vjc - C(v)} 
 v
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 ACTIVISM, STRATEGIC TRADING, AND LIQUIDITY 1459 
 and that the supremum on the right-hand side is attained by V (x) = C'~l(x) = dG{x)/d x. 
 Further, the competitive market makers have a prior that X0 ~ N(px, crx) and observe 
 total order flow Y = 6 + Z, where noise trading Z ~ N(0, of). For simplicity, we assume 
 that X0 and Z are uncorrelated. The zero-profit condition for market makers implies that 
 the price satisfies 
 P(Y) = E[F (ATOI Y-]. 
 Note that we assume that not only X0, but also Z is observed by the large trader when 
 she chooses her optimal trading decision. As pointed out by Rochet and Vila (1994), 
 this simplifies the analysis and is consistent with the continuous-time model, where in 
 equilibrium the large trader effectively observes noise trades. We point out in an example 
 below how making the alternative assumption, that the large trader chooses her trades 
 before observing Z, affects the equilibrium. 
 Assuming that the large trader conditions on both X0 and Z, her first-order condition 
 (FOC) is simply 
 V(X0 + 0) - P(0 + Z) - 0P'{0 + Z) = 0. (D.2) 
 The second-order condition (SOC) is 
 V'(X0 + 0) - 2 P'(0 + Z) - BP" {6 + Z) < 0. (D.3) 
 This FOC defines an optimal trading strategy for the large trader 0(XO, Z) given an equi- 
 librium pricing function P(). In turn, given a conjectured optimal trading strategy of the 
 form 0(XO, Z), the equilibrium pricing function is given by 
 P(y) = E[V(X0 - Z + y)'0(XQ, Z) + Z = y]. (D.4) 
 An equilibrium is then a pair of functions (0(x, z),P(y)) that satisfy the three equa- 
 tions (D.2)-(D.4). 
 By using (D.2) in (D.4), we see that a necessary condition for an equilibrium is that the 
 trading strategy be inconspicuous, that is, 
 O = E[0(Xo,Z)|y]. 
 We now illustrate how to derive the equilibrium explicitly in the simplest case where V (x) 
 is linear. 
 D.I. The Linear V (x) Case 
 Assume C(v) = ģ. Then V (x) = if/x. To solve for an equilibrium in this case, we guess 
 that P(y) = tļ/(p0 + Ay). Then the FOC gives 
 B = (*„ - Po - AZ)/(2A - 1). 
 Note that since 0 is inconspicuous, we can restrict ourselves to p0 = ¡xx. The SOC is 
 satisfied if 
 2A - 1 > 0. 
 Conversely, if we conjecture that the activist chooses a linear trading rule of the form 
 0 = ßx{X0 - p,x) + ß 2Z, we have 
 P(y) - ýy + •/'EfXo - Z'ßx(XQ - p,x) + (ßz + 1)Z = y] = iļ/(p.x + Ay), 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1460 BACKETAL. 
 where A is given by 
 A = i+ß;j-(ß-+1'j.  ß,<r; + Iß, + I '-t; 
 This follows from the linear projection theorem for Gaussian random variables: 
 E[*„ - Z'ßx(X0 - fix) + (ß z + 1 )Z = y] = lix + lf'  ßxax + {ßz + lyaŁz 
 It follows that an equilibrium exists if there is a solution A that satisfies the SOC and 
 the equation 
 A=l+ąązw1+iK (as, 
 where ßx and ßz are given by 
 ßx = 2Ä=l'
 ßz = 2A-1'
 There is one unique solution that satisfies the SOC, given by
 D.2. The Linear V (x) Case When Z Is Not Known to the Activist
 When the large trader cannot condition her trading decision on Z because it is unknown
 to her at the time of trading, she chooses X' = XQ + 6 so as to maximize her objective
 function:
 E[G(Xi) - OP(Y)'X0]. (D.6) 
 Her first-order condition (D.2) is replaced by 
 V(X0 + 6)- E[P(0 + Z) - 0P(0 + Z)'XQ] = 0, (D.7) 
 and the second-order condition becomes 
 V'(X0 + d)~ E[2 P'6 + Z) - dP"(d + Z)'X0] < 0. (D.8) 
 Since the market makers' zero-profit condition is unchanged, an equilibrium has to sat- 
 isfy (D.4) above as well. So an equilibrium in this case will be a trading strategy 0(XO) that 
 satisfies equation (D.7) given a pricing function P(y) that satisfies 
 P(y) = E[V(X0 - Z + y)'d(X0) + Z = y ]. 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 ACTIVISM, STRATEGIC TRADING, AND LIQUIDITY 1461 
 Consider the linear case, where V ( x ) = ipx. As before, it is natural to conjecture that 
 P{y ) = ipipo + Ay). The FOC then gives 
 "=lrf- (D-9> 
 Furthermore, because of the linearity of V ( x ), the FOC and equilibrium condition imme- 
 diately imply that the trading strategy should be inconspicuous, that is, p0 = p,x. Note that 
 for cost functions where V(x) is not linear, the inconspicuousness of the trading strategy 
 is no longer implied by the FOC when Z is not observed by the large trader. 
 If 0 = ßx(X0 - fjLx), then the price function is 
 P{y) = lffy + if, E[x0 - Z'ß(X0 - fxx) + Z = y' = xļjAy 
 with
 4 _ ß*al - of
 ßWx + aY
 Thus, an equilibrium is a solution for A that satisfies this equation (and the SOC) with
 Px 2A-' 
 There is a unique equilibrium given by 
 ^=K1+S)- <Dio) 
 D.3. Discussion 
 In general, unlike in the continuous-time model, we do not know how to solve for the 
 equilibrium explicitly for general cost functions outside the simple linear case. We can, 
 however, prove that the linear trading strategy is not optimal in general. That is, unlike in 
 the continuous-time model, it is not optimal to adopt the same linear strategy of the form 
 0 = ßx(X0 - fix) + ßzZ for all convex cost functions C(v). Indeed, suppose the activist 
 adopts such a trading strategy. Then the market makers' zero-profit condition implies that 
 P(y) = E[V(X0 - Z + y)'ßx(X0 - fix) + (1 + ßz)Z = y] 
 where n(x) is the standard Gaussian density and 
 M(y) = E[X0 - Z'ßx(X0 - /xx) + (1 + ßz)Z = y] = fix + (A - 1 )y, (D.ll) 
 n = V[X0 - Z'ßx(Xo - ßx) + (1 + ßz)Z = y]. (D. 12) 
 For this to be an equilibrium, the FOC should be satisfied: 
 V(X0 + 6) - P(0 + Z) - dP'(0 + Z) = 0. (D.13) 
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 1462 BACKETAL. 
 Consider, for example, the exponential case V (x) = Then P(y) = v0e'l'{lXx+Ay)+it'il . 
 For the FOC to hold, we need 
 gýiXo+ff) 
 or, equivalently, 
 e<nx0-iix-%Q)+4,»a-A)-<i,Az _ ļ _ QýA - 0. (D.15) 
 Clearly, 0 cannot be linear in X0 and Z. 
 REFERENCES 
 Admati, A. R., and P. Pfleiderer (2009): "The 'Wall Street Walk' and Shareholder Activism: Exit as a Form 
 of Voice," Review of Financial Studies , 22, 2645-2685. [1434] 
 Admati, A. R., P. Pfleiderer, and J. Zechner (1994): "Large Shareholder Activism, Risk Sharing, and 
 Financial Market Equilibrium," Journal of Political Economy , 102 (6), 1097-1130. [1433] 
 Atakan, A., and M. Ekmekci (2014): "Auctions, Actions, and the Failure of Information Aggsgaiion" Amer- 
 ican Economic Review , 104 (7), 2014-2048. [1434] 
 Axelson, U., and I. Makarov (2017): "Informational Black Holes in Financial Markets," Working Paper, 
 London School of Economics. [1434] 
 Back, K. (1992): "Insider Trading in Continuous Time," Review of Financial Studies , 5, 387-409. [1432, 
 1436-1438,1440,1449] 
 Back, K., T. Li, and A. Ljungqvist (2015): "Liquidity and Governance," Working Paper. [1431,1435,1449] 
 Barclay, M. J., and C. G. Holderness (1991): "Negotiated Block Trades and Corporate Control," Journal 
 of Finance, 46 (3), 861-878. [1434,1453] 
 Bebchuk, L., A. Brav, R. Jackson, and W. Jiang (2013): "Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist In- 
 vestors: Evidence and Policy," Journal of Corporation Law , 39, 1-34. [1434,1452] 
 Becht, M., J. Franks, J. Grant, and H. F. Wagner (2017): "Returns to Hedge Fund Activism: An Interna- 
 tional Study," Review of Financial Studies , 30 (9), 2933-2971. [1434] 
 Bhide, A. (1993): "The Hidden Costs of Stock Market Liquidity," Journal of Financial Economics , 34, 31-51. 
 [1433]
 Black, F., AND M. Scholes (1973): "The Pricing of Options and Corporate Liabilities," Journal of Political
 Economy , 81, 637-654. [1449]
 Blonski, M., and U. Lilienfeld-Toal (2016): "Moral Hazard With Excess Returns," Working Paper. [1433]
 Bolton, P., and E.-L. von Thadden (1998): "Blocks, Liquidity, and Corporate Control," Journal of Finance,
 53 (1), 1-25. [1433]
 Brav, A., W. Jiang, F. Partnoy, and R. Thomas (2008): "Hedge Fund Activism, Corporate Governance,
 and Firm Performance," Journal of Finance, 63 (4), 1729-1775. [1434,1452]
 Bris, A. (2002): "Toeholds, Takeover Premium, and the Probability of Being Acquired," Journal of Corporate
 Finance, 8, 227-253. [1433]
 Cho, K.-H. (2003): "Continuous Auctions and Insider Trading: Uniqueness and Risk Aversion," Finance &
 Stochastics, 1, 47-71. [1438]
 Coffee, J. C. Jr. (1991): "Liquidity Versus Control: The Institutional Investor as Corporate Monitor,"
 Columbia Law Review, 91, 1277-1368. [1433]
 Collin-Dufresne, P., and V. Fos (2015a): "Do Prices Reveal the Presense of Informed Trading?" Journal of
 Finance, 70 (4), 1555-1582. [1434,1441]
 1443]
 Collin-Dufresne, P., V. Fos, and D. Muravyev (2107): "Informed Trading and Option Prices: Evidence
 From Activist Trading," Working Paper. [1441]
 Dasgupta, A., and G. Piacentino (2015): "The Wall Street Walk When Blockholders Compete for Flows,"
 Journal of Finance, 70 (6), 2853-2896. [1434]
 DeMarzo, P. M., AND B. UroŠEVIČ (2006): "Ownership Dynamics and Asset Pricing With a Large Share-
 holder," Journal of Political Economy, 114, 774-815. [1433]
 Edmans, A. (2009): "Blockholder Trading, Market Efficiency and Managerial Myopia," Journal of Finance,
 64, 2481-2513. [1434]
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms
 ACTIVISM, STRATEGIC TRADING, AND LIQUIDITY 1463 
 Edmans, A., and G. Manso (2011): "Governance Through Trading and Intervention: A Theory of Multiple 
 Blockholders," Review of Financial Studies , 24, 2395-2428. [1434] 
 Faure-Grimaud, A., AND D. Gromb (2004): "Public Trading and Private Incentives," Review of Financial 
 Studies , 17 (4), 985-1014. [1433] 
 Fishman, M. J., AND K. M. Hagerty (1992): "Insider Trading and the Efficiency of Stock Prices," RAND 
 Journal of Economics, 106-122. [1434] 
 (3), 637-676. [14341 
 Gorton, G. B., P. He, AND L. Huang (2014): "Agency-Based Asset Pricing," Journal of Economic Theory, 149, 
 311-349. [1433] 
 Jiang, W., T. Li, and D. Mei (2016): "Influencing Control: Jawboning in Risk Arbitrage," Working Pa- 
 per. [1432]
 Kahn, C, and A. Winton (1998): "Ownership Structure, Speculation, and Shareholder Intervention," Journal
 of Finance, 53, 99-129. [1433]
 Kallianpur, G. (1980): Stochastic Filtering Theory. New York: Springer-Verlag. [1454]
 Kyle, A. (1985): "Continuous Auctions and Insider Trading," Econometrica, 53 (6), 1315-1335. [1432,1433,
 1435,1436,1441-1443]
 Kyle, A. S., AND J.-L. Vila (1991): "Noise Trading and Takeovers," RAND Journal of Economics, 22, 54-71.
 [1433]
 Lilienfeld-Toal, U. V., AND S. Ruenzi (2014): Ceo Ownership, Stock Market Performance, and Manage-
 rial Discretion," Journal of Finance, 69 (3), 1013-1050. [1434,1453]
 Maug, E. (1998): "Large Shareholders as Monitors: Is There a Trade-off Between Liquidity and Control?"
 Journal of Finance, 53 (1), 65-98. [1432,1433,1449,1450]
 Noe, T. H. (2002): "Investor Activism and Financial Market Structure," Review of Financial Studies, 15, 289-
 318. [1433]
 Ravid, S. A., AND M. Spiegel (1999): "Toehold Strategies, Takeover Laws and Rival Bidders," Journal of
 Banking and Finance, 23, 1219-1242. [1433]
 ROCHET, J.-C., and J.-L. Vila (1994): "Insider Trading without Normality," Review of Economic Studies, 61,
 131-152. [1459]
 Rostek, M., and M. Weretka (2012): "Price Inferece in Small Markets," Econometrica, 80 (2), 687-711.
 [1434]
 Treynor, J. (1971): "The Only Game in Town," Financial Analysts Journal, 21 (2), 12-14+22. [1433]
 Co-editor Dirk Bergemann handled this manuscript.
 Manuscript received 7 December, 2016 ; final version accepted 7 April, 2018; available online 23 April, 2018.
This content downloaded from 144.82.8.237 on Tue, 21 Apr 2026 14:41:28 UTC
All use subject to https://about.jstor.org/terms