                             Working Draft, May 2013




       PRE-DISCLOSURE ACCUMULATIONS BY ACTIVIST
             INVESTORS: EVIDENCE AND POLICY
        Forthcoming, Journal of Corporation Law, Volume 39, Fall 2013


      Lucian A. Bebchuk, Alon Brav, Robert J. Jackson, Jr., and Wei Jiang





 William J. Friedman and Alicia Townshend Friedman Professor of Law, Economics and
Finance and Director of the Program on Corporate Governance, Harvard Law School;
Professor of Finance, Fuqua School of Business, Duke University; Associate Professor of
Law and Milton Handler Fellow, Columbia Law School; Professor, Finance and
Economics Division, Columbia Business School. We wish to thank Ronald Gilson,
Jeffrey Gordon, and June Rhee, along with participants at the Conference on Markets and
Owners hosted by the Columbia Project on Investment, Ownership, and Control in the
Modern Firm, for valuable comments. We are also grateful to the Harvard Law School
and the Columbia Law School for financial support.




             Electronic copy available at: http://ssrn.com/abstract=2258083
                                      Abstract

        The SEC is currently considering a rulemaking petition requesting that the
Commission shorten the ten-day window, established by Section 13(d) of the
Williams Act, within which investors must publicly disclose purchases of a 5% or
greater stake in public companies. In this Article, we provide the first systematic
empirical evidence on these disclosures and find that several of the petition’s
factual premises are not consistent with the evidence.
        Our analysis is based on about 2,000 filings by activist hedge funds during
the period of 1994-2007. We find that the data are inconsistent with the petition’s
key claim that changes in market practices and technologies have operated over
time to increase the magnitude of pre-disclosure accumulations, making existing
rules “obsolete” and therefore requiring the petition’s proposed “modernization.”
The median stake that these investors disclose in their 13(d) filings has remained
stable throughout the 17-year period that we study, and regression analysis does
not identify a trend over time of changes in the stake disclosed by investors. We
also find that:
        * A substantial majority of 13(d) filings are actually made by investors
other than activist hedge funds, and these investors often use a substantial amount
of the 10-day window before disclosing their stake.
        * A significant proportion of poison pills have low thresholds of 15% or
less, so that management can use 13(d) disclosures to adopt low-trigger pills to
prevent any further stock accumulations by activists—a fact that any tightening of
the SEC’s rules in this area should take into account.
        * Even when activists wait the full ten days to disclose their stakes, their
purchases seem to be disproportionately concentrated on the day they cross the
threshold and the following day; thus, the practical difference in pre-disclosure
accumulations between the existing regime and the rules in jurisdictions with
shorter disclosure windows is likely much smaller than the petition assumes.
        * About 10% of 13(d) filings seem to be made after the 10-day window
has expired; the SEC may therefore want to consider tightening the enforcement
of existing rules before examining the proposed acceleration of the deadline.
        Our analysis provides new empirical evidence that should inform the
SEC’s consideration of this subject—and a foundation on which subsequent
empirical and policy analysis can build.

JEL Classification: D21, G32, G34, G35, G38, K22




            Electronic copy available at: http://ssrn.com/abstract=2258083
                         Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




                                                     Table of Contents


I. Introduction ..................................................................................................................... 1
II. The Incidence and Magnitude of Pre-Disclosure Accumulations .................................. 6
    A. The Universe of Schedule 13D Filings by Activist Hedge Funds ............................ 7
    B. The Timing of Schedule 13D Filings ...................................................................... 10
    C. The Surprising Incidence of Violations of Existing Rules...................................... 13
III. CHANGES OVER TIME ................................................................................................. 14
IV. THE COSTS OF TIGHTENING SECTION 13(D) ............................................................... 18
V. BEYOND ACTIVIST HEDGE FUNDS ............................................................................... 21
VI. THE TIMING OF POST-5% PURCHASES ........................................................................ 25
VII. DISCLOSURE REFORM AND LOW-THRESHOLD POISON PILLS ................................... 28
VIII. CONCLUSION ............................................................................................................ 31
APPENDIX .......................................................................................................................... 33
    I. Data........................................................................................................................... 33
    A. Dataset Assembly ................................................................................................... 33
    B. Constructed Variables ............................................................................................. 34
    II. Analysis ................................................................................................................... 35
    A. Determinants of the Time to Disclose .................................................................... 35
    B. Determinants of Ownership Stakes upon Filing ..................................................... 36
    C. Activists’ Ownership Stakes over Time.................................................................. 38
                Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




                                   I. INTRODUCTION


        The Securities and Exchange Commission is currently considering
revising the rules governing blockholder disclosure. A rulemaking petition
recently submitted to the Commission by the senior partners of a prominent law
firm urges the Commission to accelerate the timing of the disclosure of 5% stock
accumulations in public companies.1 While the Commission’s rules have long
required public-company investors to disclose their ownership within ten days of
crossing the 5% threshold, the Petition proposes to shorten this period to one day.
           The Commission subsequently announced a rulemaking project in this
area, and members of the Commission’s staff have signaled that the staff is
examining the subject. Former SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro, acknowledging the
“controversy” surrounding these important rules, has indicated that the
Commission is actively considering whether to adopt the changes proposed in the
Petition,2 and the SEC staff have recently signaled that responding to the Petition
is part of the Commission’s regulatory agenda.3
        Notably, the Petition offers no systematic evidence on stock
accumulations. Instead, the Petition repeatedly refers to several anecdotes
concerning recent cases in which activist hedge funds purchased large amounts of
stock (or securities convertible to stock) prior to disclosure. The Petition argues
that these anecdotes underscore a new, more general phenomenon of secret stock
accumulations made possible by changes in trading technologies that demand
immediate changes in the disclosure rules. Recent developments in market

1
  Letter from Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary, U.S.
Sec.       &      Exch.      Comm’n       (Mar.      7,     2011),       available     at
http://www.sec.gov/rules/petitions/2011/petn4-624.pdf [hereinafter Petition].
2
   See Mary L. Schapiro, Chairman, U.S. Sec. & Exch. Comm’n, Remarks at the
Transatlantic Corporate Governance Dialogue (Dec. 15, 2011), available at
http://www.sec.gov/news/speech /2011/spch121511mls.htm.
3
  See Securities and Exchange Commission, Beneficial Ownership Reporting, in OFFICE
OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET, OFFICE OF INFORMATION AND REGULATORY AFFAIRS,
UNIFIED AGENDA 2013 (“The Division is recommending that the Commission issue a
concept release to . . . modernize the beneficial ownership reporting requirements . . . .
[including], among other things, shortening the filing deadlines . . . .”), available at
http://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/eAgendaViewRule? pubId=201210&RIN=3235-AK42
(last accessed January 21, 2013).


                                            1
                Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




practices, the Petition contends, render the existing rules under Section 13(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which governs blockholder disclosure,
obsolete. And an article published by senior attorneys at the firm that filed the
Petition similarly asserts that these developments are widely understood by
market participants—but offers no evidence in support of this understanding.4
        In two separate comment letters filed with the SEC, the four of us
cautioned that the Petition does not rest on systematic empirical examination of
the publicly available data, and that such empirical investigation is called for
before any changes to the existing rules are seriously considered.5 In a subsequent
article, two of us stressed the need for such an empirical examination and
discussed the empirical issues such an examination should seek to address.6
        In response, in a recent article four senior partners of the firm that filed the
Petition dismissed our claim that an examination of the evidence beyond the
anecdotes described in the Petition is necessary.7 The authors expressed concern
that such an examination would be difficult and time-consuming and likely delay
the “modernization” of Section 13(d) that they view as desirable.8 Similarly, in a
public debate at the conference board with one of us, Martin Lipton, the senior
partner of the firm that authored the Petition, rejected the need for an empirical



4
   David Katz & Laura A. McIntosh, Corporate Governance Update: Section 13(d)
Reporting Requirements Need Updating, N.Y. L.J., Mar. 22, 2012.
5
  Letter from Lucian A. Bebchuk, Professor, Harvard Law School & Robert J. Jackson,
Jr., Associate Professor, Columbia Law School, to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary, U.S.
Sec. & Exch. Comm’n (Jul. 11, 2011), available at http://www.sec.gov/comments/4-
624/4624-3.pdf; Letter from J.B. Heaton, Alon Brav & Wei Jiang to Elizabeth M.
Murphy, Secretary, U.S. Sec. & Exch. Comm’n (July 5, 2011), at 2, available at
http://www.sec.gov/comments/4-624/4624-2.pdf.
6
  Lucian A. Bebchuk & Robert J. Jackson, Jr., The Law and Economics of Blockholder
Disclosure, 2 HARV. BUS. L. REV. __ (2012).
7
  Adam O. Emmerich, Theodore N. Mirvis, Eric S. Robinson & William Savitt, Fair
Markets and Fair Disclosure: Some Thoughts on The Law and Economics of
Blockholder Disclosure (Columbia Law and Economics Working Paper No. 428) (Aug.
27, 2012), available at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2138945.
8
  See, e.g., id. at 19 (such an examination “is neither prudent nor legally required,” and
moreover would “sacrifice [the Petition’s objectives] on the altar of endless and
ultimately inconclusive academic debate about the costs and benefits of shareholder
activism”).


                                            2
               Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




examination of these questions.9 In our view, however, given that data on Section
13(d) filings is publicly available, the SEC should not proceed with rulemaking
before examining this evidence.
       In light of the SEC’s expected consideration of the Petition, this Article
uses data based on Section 13(d) filings to provide the first empirical analysis of
this subject. We find that some key factual premises of the Petition—such as
claims that pre-disclosure accumulations have increased over time due to changes
in market practices and opportunities—are incorrect. Furthermore, our analysis
provides empirical evidence that can inform the SEC’s consideration and a
foundation on which subsequent work, by SEC staff or other researchers, can
build.
        The Article proceeds as follows. Part II describes the universe of pre-
disclosure accumulations we study and provides evidence about the incidence and
magnitude of such accumulations. We examine the universe of all Section 13(d)
filings by activist hedge funds from 1994 through 2007. We find that hedge fund
activists do indeed use the opportunity not to disclose immediately upon crossing
the 5% threshold, with over 40% taking advantage of a large part of the ten-day
window. Indeed, we find that about 10% of all filings are made after the specified
ten-day window, which suggests that the Commission should consider more
effective enforcement of the existing deadline before examining whether the
deadline should be shortened.
        Moreover, our examination of the ownership stakes revealed in Section
13(d) filings indicates that the five anecdotes noted in the Petition are not
representative of the magnitude of stakes accumulated by hedge fund activists
prior to disclosure. The evidence shows that hedge fund activists typically
disclose substantially less than 10% ownership, with a median stake of 6.3%.
        Part III investigates a key claim of the Petition: that changes in market
practices have, over time, enabled activist investors to increase the magnitude of
pre-disclosure accumulations, making existing rules obsolete and requiring
“modernization.” We show that the evidence does not support this claim. In
contrast to the concerns expressed in the Petition and subsequent work by the

9
  See The Conference Board, Director Roundtable: The Law and Economics of
Blockholder Disclosure (Nov. 11, 2012), available at http://www.conference-
board.org/governance/index.cfm?id=13474.


                                        3
                   Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




Petition’s authors,10 the size of pre-disclosure accumulations of stock have not
increased over time. Indeed, the median stake at the time of disclosure has
remained relatively stable throughout the 14-year period we study, and more
extensive regression analysis does not identify a time trend. Thus, changes in
existing rules can at most be justified as necessary to address longstanding policy
questions, not as a “modernization” required by changes in the market place.
        Part IV examines the costs of tightening the rules under Section 13(d).
Requiring activist investors to disclose their stakes in public companies more
quickly will reduce these investors’ returns by giving them less time to acquire
shares before disclosing their presence—and will therefore reduce the incidence
and magnitude of outside blockholdings in such companies. This reduction will in
turn carry two costs for other investors in public companies. First, ex post,
investors in general will benefit less frequently from the superior returns that have
long been associated with the arrival of an activist blockholder. Second, investors
can be expected to lose the gains associated with the mere possibility that a
blockholder will emerge and reduce agency costs and managerial slack—because,
ex ante, the probability that such an investor will emerge is reduced by the
tightening of the rules under Section 13(d).
        Part V provides data with respect to an aspect of the subject that seems to
have been overlooked by the authors of the Petition but that the SEC should take
into account when considering changes to the rules under Section 13(d). While
the Petition and its authors have focused on activist investors, we show that
Section 13(d) filings by activist hedge funds represent only a small minority of all
such filings.
        We document the large number of filings made under Section 13(d) by
investors other than activist hedge funds—and show that it is common for these
investors, too, to make full use of the ten-day period prior to disclosure to
accumulate more than 5% ownership in the firm by the time they disclose their
stakes. Thus, in examining the consequences and costs of the proposed tightening
of the Commission’s rules under Section 13(d), it is important to take into account
that most of the investors to which tightened rules would apply would not be the
activist hedge funds on which the Petition has focused.



10
     See Emmerich et al., supra note 6, at 4.


                                                4
                  Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




        In Part VI, we investigate how activists’ purchases beyond 5% ownership
are likely distributed in the ten-day window after the investors cross the 5%
threshold. We investigate this subject by identifying abnormal trading turnover
during the ten-day period. We find that, even when activists choose to wait the
full ten days after crossing the 5% threshold to disclose their stakes, their
purchases are likely concentrated on the day they cross the threshold as well as
the following day. Thus, whatever the benefits of the existing ten-day period for
activist investors, the practical difference in pre-disclosure accumulations
between the existing regime and the rules in jurisdictions with shorter disclosure
windows—which the Petition holds out as a model for modern reform—is likely
much smaller than the Petition assumes.
        Finally, in Part VII we consider the relationship between the Petition’s
proposed tightening of the disclosure rules under Section 13(d) and the recent
proliferation of low-threshold poison pills in the United States. We present
evidence indicating that a significant proportion of poison pills at public
companies have thresholds that fall substantially short of a controlling block. We
argue that any consideration of reforming the rules under Section 13(d) should
take into account the interaction of such reform with the use of these poison pills.
        In particular, we suggest that the SEC should avoid adopting any reforms
that would facilitate the use of these pills to cap the stakes that outside investors
can acquire in public companies. To the extent that the SEC does choose to
tighten its disclosure rules under Section 13(d), any such tightening should apply
only to companies that adopt corporate-law arrangements that preclude the
adoption of low-trigger poison pills.
        Before proceeding, we would like to stress that, because we focus only on
the evidence available from disclosures under Section 13(d), our analysis is
limited to only a few of the empirical questions that an adequate assessment of the
rules governing blockholders’ acquisitions of public-company stock should
consider. Any such assessment should include analysis of the benefits conferred
on shareholders by outside blockholders as well as the effects of existing
disclosure rules and state law on the incidence and size of block holdings in
public companies.11 The preliminary evidence provided in this Article, however,
offers no support for the Petition’s proposed change in the existing rules under

11
     See Bebchuk & Jackson, supra note 5, at ___-___.


                                             5
                Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




Section 13(d)—and provides some basis for concern that the proposed changes
would have adverse effects on public-company investors.
        Finally, we note that we are open to serious reconsideration of the Section
13(d) rules that govern blockholder disclosure. It may be that changes are needed
to the structure that Congress originally selected. The choices that Congress made
may reflect an ad-hoc choice that may not be the product of optimal analysis of all
of the implications of these rules. In our view, however, any reconsideration of
these rules—and the rules governing the relationship between incumbents and
outside blockholders more generally—should be based upon a full analysis of all
of the available empirical evidence. In this Article, we offer a first step toward the
systematic empirical analysis that should be the basis for any changes to the
existing rules governing blockholder disclosure.

                          II. THE INCIDENCE AND MAGNITUDE OF
                            PRE-DISCLOSURE ACCUMULATIONS

        In this Part, we examine the frequency and magnitude of hedge-fund
activists’ accumulations of significant blocks of stock in public companies. As we
explain below, a systematic review of the evidence suggests that the concerns and
anecdotes described in the Petition are not representative of the evidence on
activist hedge fund behavior more generally.
        In Section A, we describe the source of the data we present throughout the
Article—public disclosures filed by activist hedge funds under Section 13(d) over
a fourteen-year period—along with summary statistics describing the incidence of
these filings and the size of the blocks disclosed by activist hedge funds. In
Section B, we examine the timing of these disclosures—and the relationships
between the timing of these filings and the size of the stake that investors
disclose. And in Section C we show that investors commonly violate existing
rules by waiting more than ten days to disclose—suggesting that, before
modifying these rules, the SEC should consider more consistent enforcement of
existing law.




                                          6
                Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




          A. The Universe of Schedule 13D Filings by Activist Hedge Funds

        In this Article, we build upon the original dataset, covering the period
from 2001 to 2006, used in the first comprehensive study of hedge-fund activism
published by two of us along with Frank Partnoy and Randall Thomas.12 This
dataset was also studied by the same authors in subsequent work.13 Two of us,
with Hyunseob Kim, extended the data to include 2007 in a study analyzing hedge
fund activism14 and presented an updated sample covering the period from 1994
through 2007 in a more recent article considering the long-term effects of such
activism.15 Thus, this database has proven fruitful for previous analysis of several
dimensions of hedge fund activism. In this Article, we use the updated dataset to
provide the first systematic evidence on pre-disclosure accumulations of stock by
hedge funds.
        The dataset includes information concerning hedge fund activism drawn
from disclosures required to be filed under Section 13(d), which are typically
made on the SEC’s Schedule 13D.16 To begin, the dataset was constructed by first
identifying all of the investors that filed Schedule 13Ds between 1994 and 2007.
Then, based on the names and descriptions of the filers required to be disclosed
under Item 2 of Schedule 13D,17 filer types such as banks, insurance companies,
mutual funds, and other non-activist investors were excluded from our sample. In
addition, based on the description of the purpose of the investment required to be




12
    Alon Brav, Wei Jiang, Frank Partnoy & Randall Thomas, Hedge Fund Activism,
Corporate Governance, and Firm Performance, 63 J. FIN. 1729 (2008).
13
    Alon Brav, Wei Jiang, Frank Partnoy & Randall Thomas, The Returns to Hedge Fund
Activism, 64 FIN. ANALY. J. 45 (2008).
14
    Alon Brav, Wei Jiang & Hyunseob Kim, Hedge Fund Activism: A Review, in
FOUNDATIONS AND TRENDS IN FINANCE (2010).
15
    Alon Brav, Wei Jiang & Hyunseob Kim, The Real Effects of Hedge Fund Activism:
Productivity, Risk, and Product Market Competition (Nov. 17, 2011), available at
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2022904.
16
   See Securities and Exchange Commission, Form of Schedule 13D, 17 C.F.R. § 240.13d
(2010).
17
    See id. at Item 2 (requiring a description of the “name[,] principal business[, and]
address of [the] principal office” of the filer).


                                           7
                 Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




included in Item 4,18 events where the purpose of the investor is to be involved in
a bankruptcy or reorganization due to financial distress, the purpose of the filer is
to engage in merger or acquisition-related risk arbitrage, or the company in which
the investment is made is a closed-end fund were also excluded.
        In addition, extensive news searches were conducted using the hedge fund
and company names drawn from Schedule 13D. These searches allow for the
inclusion in the dataset of additional information not available in the Schedule
13Ds, such as the hedge fund’s motive and the target company’s response. As a
result of these searches, the dataset includes instances in which hedge funds
maintained an activist position in a large public company but owned less than 5%
of the company’s stock (and, thus, were not required to file a Schedule 13D).19
        Table 1 below provides summary data on the activist interventions in our
dataset during the time period we study here, between 1994 and 2007. The Table
describes the total number of such filings during the first half of that period, from
1994 to 2000, and during the second half of that period, between 2001 and 2007:




18
   See id. at Item 4 (requiring investors to disclose the “[p]urpose of [the t]ransaction,”
including, inter alia, any plans relating to the acquisition of additional stock or a
corporate event such as a merger or acquisition).
19
   Because of the significant amount of capital required to own 5% or more of the stock
of a large public company, relying exclusively on Schedule 13D filings might exclude
cases in which outside investors maintained significant holdings of stock. For further
discussion, see Brav, Jiang, Partnoy & Thomas, supra note 11, at 1739. For a more
detailed description of the procedure for assembling the dataset, see Alon Brav, Wei
Jiang & Hyunseob Kim, Hedge Fund Activism: A Review, 4 FOUND. & TRENDS IN
FINANCE 186, 193-95 (2009).


                                            8
                Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




      Table 1: Incidence of Interventions by Activist Hedge Funds
                 Number of 13D
                                                      Number of 13D Filings
   Year          Filings by Hedge          Year
                                                     by Hedge Fund Activists
                  Fund Activists
   1994                   10              2001                  96
   1995                   37              2002                 134
   1996                   99              2003                 127
   1997                  212              2004                 148
   1998                  161              2005                 237
   1999                  118              2006                 269
   2000                  120              2007                 272
    Total,                           Total, 2001‐
                         757                                  1,283
 1994‐2000                               2007
    Total,
                                     2,040
 1994‐2007


        As Table 1 shows, there has been some increase in the frequency of hedge
fund activism over time. More importantly, the evidence shows that the dataset
includes a significant number of events in nearly every year, with more than 100
events in every year except for four throughout our fourteen-year sample. Indeed,
except for the first three years of our sample period—1994 through 1996—the
dataset includes a significant number of events for each year in our study. In this
Article, we draw on these events to examine the important evidentiary questions
left open by the Petition and its supporters.
       The dataset includes 42 events in which the activist hedge fund did not file
a Schedule 13D because it held less than 5% of the stock of the target company.
These events were excluded from the analysis of Schedule 13D filings in the
remainder of the Article. Our analysis of such filings is thus based on a dataset of
about 2,000 such filings. 20




20
    As will be noted, some of the tests we conduct below (especially our regression
results) are based on a somewhat smaller sample because relevant data was not available
for some of the events in which 13D schedules were filed.


                                          9
                  Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




                        B. The Timing of Schedule 13D Filings

        To examine the costs and benefits of the Petition’s proposed acceleration
of the time within which investors are required to disclose their stakes, it may be
useful to know when investors choose to disclose during the existing ten-day
period. Thus, we begin by describing when activist investors file their Schedule
13Ds after crossing the 5% threshold. Table 2 describes the number of Schedule
13Ds in our sample that were filed within each range of days after the activist
crossed the 5% threshold:


       Table 2: Timing of Schedule 13D Filings by Activist Hedge Funds
                                                                               More
                      0‐3            4‐7           8‐10          11‐15
                                                                              than 15
                      Days           Days          Days          Days
                                                                               Days
     Number of
                     310            518            849            61           132
     13Ds Filed
     Percentage
     of Entire       16.5%          27.6%          45.3%          3.3%         7.1%
     Sample


       As Table 2 shows, the bulk of activists filing Schedule 13Ds do so
between 8 and 10 days after crossing the 5% threshold.21 One might expect that
the bulk of these filings are concentrated in the final few days as the investor
approaches the end of the ten-day period for permissible filings. Figure 1 below


21
  Indeed, as Table 2 indicates, more than 10% of our observations include cases in which
the hedge fund failed to file a Schedule 13D within 10 days of crossing the 5% threshold,
as required by existing law. For further discussion of this finding, see infra Part II.C. In
our initial analysis of these filings, we actually observed that more than 20% of our
observations involved cases in which the activist waited to disclose until after the 10-day
period had expired. Such late filings may occur in part because activists count business
days, rather than calendar days, when determining when the filing deadline arrives. But
see SEC, Compliance and Disclosure Interpretations, Question 103.10, available at
http://www.sec.gov/divisions/corpfin/guidance/reg13d-interp.htm (noting that the period
is measured in calendar days). Nevertheless, to be conservative we recalculated our
calendar-day count to a business-day count for purposes of Table 2. Still, as that Table
shows, in more than 10% of our events the hedge fund failed to file a Schedule 13D
within ten business days of crossing the 5% threshold.


                                            10
               Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




provides a histogram describing the percentage of filings in our sample that occur
within a specified number of days after the investor crosses the 5% threshold.


         Figure 1: Histogram of Number of Days After Crossing 5%




        As one might expect, Figure 1 suggests that hedge fund activists make use
of the ten-day period. A majority file their Schedule 13D between 7 and 10 days
after they have crossed the 5% threshold, with nearly 20% filing on the tenth day
itself.
         The data also permit us to examine whether the activists who take longer
to file their Schedule 13D after crossing the 5% threshold disclose larger stakes
than investors who file immediately after crossing the threshold. Table 4 describes
the percentage of ownership disclosed by the hedge fund activists in our sample,
sorted by the number of days between the time the investor crosses the 5%
threshold and files its Schedule 13D:




                                        11
                Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




             Table 4: Percent Ownership Disclosed by Delay Between
     Crossing 5% Threshold and Filing Disclosures Under Section 13(d)
                                     Delay Between Crossing 5% Threshold and
                                              Filing of Schedule 13D

                                      0‐1          2‐4         5‐7         8‐10
      Percentile          All
                                      Days         Days        Days        Days

          5%              5.0%        5.0%        5.0%         5.1%       5.1%
          10%             5.1%        5.1%        5.0%         5.1%       5.1%
          25%             5.4%        5.4%        5.2%         5.4%       5.4%
          50%             6.3%        7.4%        6.0%         6.1%       6.2%
          75%             8.8%        9.9%        8.75%        8.4%       8.4%
          90%                                                              14.2
                         14.6%       16.5%        13.8%       11.3%
                                                                           %
          95%                                                              21.2
                         21.2%       19.8%        20.2%       19.9%
                                                                           %
        Average           8.8%        9.1%        8.0%         7.9%       8.8%


        As Table 4 suggests, the evidence does not indicate that activists who take
longer to disclose their positions under Section 13(d) emerge with larger stakes
than investors who disclose more quickly after crossing the 5% threshold. Our
dataset, however, also permits us to consider the key factors that are associated
with the amount of time it takes activist hedge funds to file their disclosures-
including, among other questions, the relationship between the amount of time
activists take to disclose their position and the percent ownership the activist
discloses.
       In multivariate regression models described in more detail in the
Appendix, we find that firm size and abnormal stock returns around the disclosure
date are positively associated with the number of days the investor waits after
crossing the 5% threshold before disclosing its position, while the size-adjusted
stock returns for the company in the period leading up to the disclosure is




                                        12
                 Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




negatively associated with the number of days until the filing.22 Consistent with
the summary data described in Table 4, however, we find no evidence suggesting
that activists who take longer to file a Schedule 13D emerge with larger stakes.
               Similarly, the dataset permits us to explore which variables do
meaningfully predict the activists’ ownership stake at the time they made their
initial disclosures under Schedule 13D. In multivariate regression analysis
described in more detail in the Appendix, we identify several important
determinants of the amount of ownership that activists disclose in their filings
under Section 13(d).23 Consistent with the findings described above, however, the
evidence does not suggest that the number of days before the investor discloses its
position is meaningfully associated with the percentage of ownership the investor
discloses.

            C. The Surprising Incidence of Violations of Existing Rules

        Finally, our analysis shows that a surprising number of investors violate
existing rules by failing to disclose their stakes under Section 13(d) within ten
days after crossing the 5% threshold. The striking evidence that a substantial
proportion of investors disclose too late suggests that, before accelerating the
timing of disclosure under Section 13(d), the SEC should consider more stringent
enforcement of existing law.

        As indicated in Table 2 above, 193 of the disclosures in the sample were
filed more than ten days after the investor crossed the 5% threshold. These
disclosures represent more than 10% of our sample, indicating that about one in
ten activist hedge fund filings under Section 13(d), by their terms, do not comply
with existing law. Of course, we do not suggest that these investors deliberately
flout their obligations under federal securities law. Some of these filings may
result from an inadvertent failure to comply with, or a misinterpretation of, the


22
   More extensive detail describing our regression analyses can be found in the Appendix.
See infra Appendix at Part II.B. As those models show, although we identify positive and
statistically significant relationships between the number of days before activist investors
file their disclosures and, for example, firm size, we find no statistically significant
relationship between the percentage of ownership revealed in 13(d) filings and the
number of days until the investor files their disclosure.
23
   See infra Appendix at Part II.B.


                                            13
                   Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




SEC’s existing Section 13(d) rules. But the fact that more than 10% of the
disclosures in our sample are filed more than ten days after the investor crosses
the threshold—and more than 7% are filed more than fifteen days after the
threshold is crossed—deserves further examination.
        In our view, before the SEC explores a redesign of existing rules, it should
consider enforcing existing law more effectively. The SEC should work to ensure
that investors strictly comply with its existing rules governing blockholder
disclosure—particularly because investors currently appear not to comply with
these rules in many cases. Moreover, the SEC should consider this evidence when
considering whether to make changes to those rules.
        In sum, the evidence shows that hedge fund activists do indeed use the
ten-day period not to disclose immediately upon crossing the 5% threshold. But
these investors typically do not acquire stakes of the magnitude described in the
Petition prior to disclosure—instead, hedge fund activists typically own much less
than 10% when they disclose. Finally, the evidence indicates that a significant
proportion of investors do not comply with the existing ten-day rule, suggesting
that, before proceeding with a reexamination of that rule, the SEC should pursue
more consistent enforcement of current law.

                                  III. CHANGES OVER TIME

        The Petition and its authors argue that, due to changes in trading practices
and technologies, the incidence and magnitude of pre-disclosure accumulations
above 5% by hedge fund activists have increased over time. The Petition itself
urged that “[t]he advent of computerized trading . . . allowing massive volumes of
shares to trade in a matter of seconds” “has accelerated the ability of investors to
accumulate economic ownership of shares.”24 More recently, several senior
partners of the law firm that authored the Petition have contended that “changes in
capital markets and trading technologies” make rapid accumulations by outside
investors “much easier today than . . . when the Williams Act was enacted.”25

        The Petition, however, offered only four anecdotes over the last five years
in claiming that investors “frequently do” engage in large accumulations of stock

24
     Petition, supra note 1, at 3.
25
     Emmerich et al., supra note [6], at 13.


                                               14
                Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




during the ten days after they cross the 5% threshold.26 The only other citation
offered by the Petition for this proposition is a New York Times article—an article
that, in turn, relied upon a Memorandum issued by the firm that authored the
Petition.27
        More recently, Martin Lipton, the senior partner of the firm that authored
the Petition, presented the firm’s views in more detail at a Directors’ Roundtable
sponsored by the Conference Board.28 In that presentation and others, the firm has
noted two additional anecdotes in which investors engaged in significant stock
accumulations after crossing the 5% threshold.29 But both anecdotes were drawn
from foreign jurisdictions in which the Williams Act does not apply.
        In response to the regulatory commentary and papers that we have written
questioning these premises,30 four senior partners of the firm that authored the
Petition simply state in a forthcoming article that “[i]t cannot seriously be
contested that changes in capital markets and trading technologies make rapid
accumulation of stock much easier today than in 1968.”31 These partners have
similarly stated that it is “widely understood that developments in market liquidity
and trading—which allow massive volumes of public company shares to be
traded in fractions of a second—have made the Section 13(d) reporting regime’s
10-day window obsolete, allowing blockholders to contravene the purposes of the
statute.”32


26
   See Petition, supra note 1, at 5-6, 8, 10.
27
   Id. at 3 & n.9 (citing Andrew Ross Sorkin, Big Investors Appear Out of Thin Air, N.Y.
TIMES DEALBOOK (Nov. 1, 2010).
28
    See The Conference Board, Director Roundtable: The Law and Economics of
Blockholder Disclosure (Nov. 11, 2012), available at http://www.conference-
board.org/governance/index.cfm?id=13474.
29
   See id.; see also Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act: A Modest Proposal for
Modernization, at 5 (May 11, 2012) (unpublished presentation, on file with authors).
30
   See, e.g., Bebchuk & Jackson, supra note 5; see also Letter from J.B. Heaton, Alon
Brav & Wei Jiang to Elizabeth M. Murphy, supra note 6.
31
   Emmerich et al., supra note [6], at 13.
32
    Adam O. Emmerich et al., Blockholder Disclosure, and the Use and Abuse of
Shareholder Power, HARVARD LAW SCHOOL FORUM ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND
FINANCIAL REGULATION (Sept. 25, 2012), available at http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/
corpgov/2012/09/25/blockholder-disclosure-and-the-use-and-abuse-of-shareholder-
power/#more-33090.


                                          15
               Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




        We are not familiar, however, with any research establishing this claim. In
any event, the question whether this proposition is correct can be resolved directly
clearly by consulting the extensive, publicly available data that can be drawn from
investors’ disclosures under Section 13(d). This Part uses this evidence to
evaluate the Petition’s claim that, over time, investors have increasingly used the
ten-day window available under Section 13(d) to accumulate positions in excess
of the 5% threshold.
        We begin with summary data describing the percentage ownership of
activist investors when they disclose their positions under Section 13(d) over
time. Figure 2 below describes, from 1994 through 2007, the average and median
ownership stake of the investors in our sample at the time they file their initial
disclosures under Section 13(d).
  Figure 2: Median Ownership at the Time of Filing: Evolution Over Time




        As Figure 2 suggests, the data do not support the claim that, over time,
activists have increasingly disclosed positions far in excess of the 5% threshold.
We can examine this claim more closely, however, through multivariate
regression analysis. To do so, we specify models in which the dependent variable
is the percentage of ownership the investor discloses in their initial filing under




                                        16
                Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




Section 13(d) and control for variables that are important determinants of that
percentage.33 We then separately model the relationship between the percentage
of ownership disclosed and a dummy variable identifying a year trend as well as a
dummy variable indicating whether the observation occurred in the final five
years of our sample. Table 5 below describes the estimated correlation
coefficients, z-statistics, and significance associated with each of those variables
in our models:


             Table 5: The Relationship Between the Passage of Time
                and Ownership Disclosed by Activist Investors34

                                                 Ownership           Ownership
                                                 Disclosed In        Disclosed in
                                                Activist Filings    Activist Filings

     Time‐Trend Control Variable
                                                    ‐0.001
                                                    [‐0.20]
     Dummy Variable Indicating Final                                     ‐.0004
     Five Sample Years                                                     [‐1.32]
     Controls for Market Value,
     Institutional Ownership, Analyst
     Coverage, Liquidity, Prior Stock                   +                    +
     Returns, Short‐Run Abnormal
     Return and Days Until Filing?
     Number of Observations                          1,398                1,398
     Psuedo R2                                       10.2%                5.5%




33
   For a description of our findings regarding the critical determinants of the percentage
of ownership disclosed in activists’ filings in our sample, see supra Appendix at Part
II.B.
34
   Throughout this Article, when presenting results of regression analysis we use standard
identifiers of statistical significance: “****” indicates significance at 99% confidence,
“**” indicates significance at 95% confidence, and “*” indicates significance at 90%
confidence. For further detail on the results of these models, see infra Appendix at Part
II.B.


                                           17
               Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




        As Table 5 shows, the evidence offers no support for the Petition’s claim
that, over time, changes in trading practices have enabled activist investors to
acquire larger blocks of public-company stock than was previously possible.
Neither the variable indicating the trend of disclosed ownership percentages over
time, nor the dummy variable indicating observations in the final five years of our
sample period, suggests that the percentage of disclosed ownership has increased
in recent years.
        To the contrary, the coefficients for these variables are both negative,
suggesting the opposite trend—although, to be sure, neither model suggests that
the relationship is statistically meaningful. At bottom, a systematic review of the
empirical evidence on hedge-fund activists does not support the Petition’s
anecdotal contention that changes in trading technology have enabled activists to
accumulate larger blocks of public-company stock in recent years.

                      IV. THE COSTS OF TIGHTENING SECTION 13(D)

        Although the evidentiary basis for the Petition’s claims about the need to
address recent changes in trading practices is unclear, there is no question that
tightening the Section 13(d) rules as suggested in the Petition would carry
significant costs for public company shareholders. These costs arise from the
simple fact that requiring activist investors to disclose their ownership in public
companies more quickly will reduce these investors’ returns—thereby reducing
the incidence and magnitude of outside blockholdings in large public
companies.35

        For two reasons, tightening the SEC’s rules under Section 13(d) would
likely deter outside investors from accumulating large blocks of stock in public
companies. First, as we have shown, the evidence indicates that, in more than half
of the events in our sample, activist hedge funds file their Schedule 13Ds between
7 and 10 days after they cross the 5% threshold. Reducing the amount of time that
investors have before they are required to disclose their position will likely reduce



35
  See supra text accompanying notes 24-28; see also Bebchuk & Jackson, supra note 10,
at ___ (describing how the changes urged by the Petition would deter investors from
accumulating and holding large blocks of public-company stock).


                                         18
                Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




their profits—and, thus, their incentives to accumulate large blocks of public-
company stock.
        Second, the tightening proposed by the Petition would enable incumbents
to adopt low-trigger poison pills that make it impossible for outside blockholders
to accumulate additional shares after they cross the 5% threshold. In previous
work by two of us, we show that, among the 805 public companies in the
Sharkrepellent dataset that currently have poison pills in place, 76% have pills
triggered by ownership of 15% or less, while 15% have pills triggered by 10% or
less.36
        Tightening the Section 13(d) rules will impose two types of costs on
public company shareholders. For one thing, shareholders will sustain direct
costs, since they will benefit less frequently from the superior stock returns that
occur when an activist investor appears. Shareholders will also incur indirect costs
in the form of increased managerial slack.
        First, reducing the incidence and magnitude of outside investments in
large blocks of public company stock will impose direct costs because
shareholders will no longer enjoy the superior returns long associated with the
arrival of an activist 5% blockholder. Figure 3 below describes the average
abnormal buy-and-hold returns beginning twenty days before an activist hedge
fund crosses the 5% threshold through twenty days after the investor crosses the
threshold:




36
  See id. at ___ (citing Factset Research Data Systems, Inc., Dataset, Sharkrepellant.net,
available at http://sharkrepellent.net)).


                                           19
               Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




            Figure 3: Abnormal Returns Before and After Activists
                             Cross the 5% Threshold




        As Figure 3 shows, the direct costs of tightening the Section 13(d) rules
for public company shareholders are likely to be substantial. The average
abnormal returns observed during the 20-day period before and after an investor
crosses the 5% threshold are approximately 6%. If the Section 13(d) rules are
tightened, shareholders are less likely to benefit from the significant ex post gains
that shareholders enjoy after an investor crosses the 5% threshold.
               The indirect costs of tightening the Section 13(d) rules, however,
could be even more substantial. In addition to the gains described in Figure 3, to
the extent that the rules urged by the Petition and its supporters reduce the
incidence and magnitude of outside blockholdings, investors can also be expected
to lose some gains associated with the mere possibility that an activist will emerge
to reduce agency costs and managerial slack, because the probability that such an
investor will emerge will be reduced by the tightening of the rules under Section
13(d). This possibility is consistent with the longstanding and significant evidence
showing that corporate governance provisions that shield incumbents from




                                         20
                Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




shareholder oversight are associated with lower firm value and shareholder
returns.37

                             V. BEYOND ACTIVIST HEDGE FUNDS

        The Petition devotes the bulk of its attention to activist hedge funds, and
our analysis thus far has focused on Schedule 13D filings, and pre-disclosure
accumulations, by such funds. However, an examination of the data on Schedule
13D filings reveals a further dimension that has been overlooked by the Petition—
but should be taken into account by the SEC. The majority of Schedule 13D
filings, including filings that use all or most of the ten-day period prior to
disclosure, are not made by activist hedge funds. Thus, any tightening of the 13D
rules would thus apply to a much larger universe of cases than those on which the
Petition focuses.

       To provide an empirical sense for the scope of this issue, Table 7 below
provides information on the percentage of all Schedule 13D filings made by
hedge fund activists between 1994 and 2007.




37
   See, e.g., Lucian Bebchuk et al., What Matters in Corporate Governance?, 22 REV.
FIN. STUD. 783, 790 (2009) (describing this literature); Paul A. Gompers et al., Corporate
Governance and Equity Prices, 118 Q. J. ECON. 107, 110 (2001) (noting the earliest
developments in this literature and establishing that governance provisions that provide
shareholders with stronger oversight authority are associated with significantly positive
abnormal returns); see also John Core et al., Does Weak Governance Cause Weak Stock
Returns? An Examination of Firm Operating Performance and Investors’ Expectations,
56 J. FIN. 655 (2006) (evaluating the relationship between governance arrangements and
stock returns).


                                           21
               Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




   Table 7: Activists Within the Broader Incidence of Section 13(d) Filings
                            Percentage
                                                                    Percentage of
              Total          of Filings                Total
                                                                    Filings Made
  Year      Number of        Made by         Year    Number of
                                                                     by Activist
            13D Filings       Activist               13D Filings
                                                                    Hedge Funds
                           Hedge Funds
   1994          283             5.3%         2001         2,590         6.3%
   1995          611             7.2%         2002         2,390         8.6%
   1996         2,161            6.7%         2003         2,541         7.8%
   1997         3,552            8.3%         2004         2,366         9.4%
   1998         3,152            7.4%         2005         2,479         14.8%
   1999         2,981            6.5%         2006         2,700         15.6%
   2000         2,954            7.5%         2007         2,680         16.4%
               Total Number of 13D           Percentage of Filings Made by
                      Filings                    Activist Hedge Funds
  1994‐
                       33,440                           9.5%
  2007


        As Table 7 indicates, during this period as a whole less than one-tenth of
these filings were by activist hedge funds—and this fraction did not exceed more
than one-sixth in any of the years for which we have data. Thus, any tightening of
the SEC’s rules under Section 13(d) would apply to a universe of filings by
investors that are not hedge fund activists that would be several times larger than
the universe of filings by activists.
       Of course, some might argue that non-activist investors are unconcerned
about the SEC’s rules under Section 13(d) because these investors typically
disclose their positions immediately—or, even if they disclose later on, they
generally do not purchase shares beyond the 5% threshold before they disclose.
Our dataset allows us to explore this claim empirically—and we find that it is
incorrect.
        We selected the Section 13(d) filings from June 2011 at random and
collected information from each filing on the length of time between the investor
crossing the 5% threshold and the filing date as well as the investor’s ownership
stake. Table 8 provides summary statistics of the ownership stake at filing and
the number of days between crossing the 5% threshold and disclosure for both the
hedge fund activists and the non-activist investors in our sample for June 2011.
        As Table 8 indicates, slightly less than 65% of filings occur within ten

                                        22
                Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




days of crossing the 5% threshold for both activists and non-activists. Similarly,
as Table 8 shows we find little significant difference in the typical stakes
described in activist and non-activist disclosures: the median initial ownership
stake revealed by hedge-fund activists in their initial Schedule 13D is 9%, while
the median stake disclosed by non-activists is 20%.


         Table 8: Activist and Non-Activist Filings Under Section 13(d)38
                      Days Between Crossing 5%      Ownership Stake Disclosed
                       Threshold and Disclosure         Upon Initial Filing
                      Hedge Fund    Non‐Hedge       Hedge Fund     Non‐Hedge
                        Activists      Funds         Activists        Funds
     25 Percentile
       th                 7 days         6 days          6%               9%
     50 Percentile
       th                10 days        10 days          9%              20%
     75 Percentile
       th                10 days        13 days         22%              39%


         To pursue a more systematic analysis of these questions, we constructed
two sets of multivariate regression models to explore whether there are
statistically significant differences between the disclosure behavior of hedge-fund
activists and non-hedge-fund activists. In the first set, the dependent variable is
the number of days between the time the investor crosses the 5% threshold and its
disclosure under Section 13(d). In the second, the dependent variable is the initial
ownership disclosed by the investor. Table 9 below describes the estimated
coefficients, and standard errors, produced by those models.




38
   The number of hedge-fund activists in the sample described in Table 8 is 20; the
number of non-activist investors in the group is 154. We note that the ownership stakes
associated with non-activists is relatively high because many of these non-activists
eventually seek control. Moreover, many of our non-activist observations featuring high
ownership stakes involve conversions of debt into stock or negotiated block trades rather
than open-market purchases. A recent study in this area shows that, among all Schedule
13D filings from 2001 to 2010, the median ownership stake disclosed for investors
engaging in open-market purchases was 6.2%, similar to our median figure of 9% for
hedge-fund activists. See Pierre Collin-Dufresne & Vyacheslav Fos, Do Prices Reveal the
Presence of Informed Trading? (Aug. 2012) (unpublished manuscript, on file with
authors), available at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2023629.


                                           23
                  Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




               Table 9: Activist and Non-Activist Disclosure Behavior39
                                                         Percentage Ownership
                                   Days to File
                                                             Upon Disclosure
                                 (a)             (b)          (c)           (d)
     Percentage Owned         0.8482           0.007
     at Disclosure             [1.27]          [1.51]
     Open‐Market              0.2593          ‐0.003*   ‐0.2417***
     Purchase                  [0.65]         [‐1.69]     [‐5.59]
     Hedge Fund               0.0898           ‐0.003      ‐0.0121    ‐0.1389***
     Dummy                    [‐0.18]         [‐0.40]       [‐0.21]     [‐2.42]
     R2                                                     18.2%         3.3%
     Observations               174             174           174          174


        Table 9 offers two important insights on the differences between activist
hedge funds and other investors subject to the SEC’s rules under Section 13(d).
First, we find no statistically meaningful difference between the two groups of
investors with respect to the number of days each waits to disclose its position
under Section 13(d). Second, we find no meaningful differences between the two
groups of investors with respect to the ownership stake revealed at the time of the
filing—although one model indicates that the hedge fund investors in our sample
disclose statistically significantly smaller stakes than non-hedge-fund activists,
consistent with the comparison of the median stakes described above.
       In sum, the evidence suggests that the tightening of the rules under Section
13(d) proposed by the Petition would apply to a universe of investors many times
larger than the activist hedge funds with which the Petition is principally
concerned. Moreover, these investors currently follow a similar approach to
compliance with the SEC’s current rules under Section 13(d), both in terms of the
amount of time they wait before disclosing their stakes and in terms of the
magnitude of the ownership they disclose under Section 13(d)—and, if anything,
non-activists amass lager stakes than their activist hedge-fund counterparts.
       The evidence indicates that the Petition’s proposed changes to the SEC’s
rules would have a significant effect on a substantial group of investors not
considered in the Petition’s analysis. Before adopting the tightening of the rules

39
 In Table 9, models (a) and (c) provide the results of an ordered-logit regression.
Models (b) and (d) describe the results of a two-sided tobit regression.


                                         24
                Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




proposed in the Petition, the SEC should consider the effects of the proposed
changes on these investors as well.

                          VI. THE TIMING OF POST-5% PURCHASES

        Thus far, we have focused on the consequences of allowing some time to
pass between the time when the investor reaches the 5% threshold and is required
to disclose its holdings under Section 13(d). The Petition, however, does not seek
to eliminate this delay altogether—merely to shorten it. Specifically, the Petition
contends that this period should be reduced to one day, arguing that doing so
would reduce the ability of outside blockholders to emerge with large blocks far
exceeding the 5% disclosure threshold. And, as the Petition notes, many other
jurisdictions permit a delay between two to five days before investors must
disclose the accumulation of an outside block.

         Thus, we note several implications of our evidence for the consequences
of reducing the period of time that investors have before disclosing outside
blockholdings. As we explain below, the evidence suggests that, to the extent that
blockholders do purchase stakes beyond 5%, these purchases are likely
disproportionately concentrated on the day on which the investor crosses the 5%
threshold and, to a lesser extent, the immediately following day. Consequently, it
is far from clear that reducing the disclosure window to two days—or even one
day—would reduce the frequency or size of blocks of stock significantly above
5%, as might be contemplated by the authors of the Petition.
        To begin, we consider when activists might attempt to accumulate
significantly more than 5% stakes in public companies. Figure 4 below describes
the average abnormal share turnover (that is, trading volume) in our sample
relative to the date on which the activist crosses the 5% ownership threshold:40




40
  For purposes of Figure 4, normal trading turnover is measured for each company over a
200-day period that ends ten days before the date on which the activist crosses the 5%
threshold. Abnormal turnover is the ratio of the actual turnover on the relevant date to
normal turnover.


                                          25
                    Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




          Figure 4: Abnormal Trading Volume Before and After Activists
                            Cross the 5% Threshold




        As Figure 4 shows, the evidence indicates that the bulk of abnormal
trading volume typically occurs during the day the activist investor crosses the 5%
threshold. Turnover on the day the activist hedge funds cross the 5% threshold is
about 400% higher than normal. In sum, to the extent that activists seek to engage
in significant purchases that allow them to accumulate stakes far above the 5%
threshold, the evidence suggests that these purchases are most likely to occur on
the day on which the activist crosses the threshold.
        From a policy perspective, the above evidence indicates that accelerating
the current ten-day period would not produce a proportionate reduction in the
acquisition of stakes over 5%. To illustrate, if one were to shorten the existing
ten-day period to four days (a 60% reduction in the amount of time investors have
to disclose their stakes), as in the jurisdictions noted in the Petition,41 our data
suggest that accumulations above 5% would not similarly decline by 60%. Thus,
the practical differences between the SEC’s current rules and the rules in other
jurisdictions is less significant than it seems, and moving toward those regimes
would not result in a major change in pre-disclosure accumulations above the 5%
threshold.




41
     See Petition, supra note 1, at 8-9.


                                           26
                Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




        The Petition and its advocates argue that support for their position is
provided by rules in several jurisdictions—the United Kingdom,42 Australia,43
Canada,44 and Hong Kong45—that provide shorter disclosure windows (from two
days to four days). Citing these jurisdictions, a partner in the firm that authored
the Petition argues in subsequent work that “[i]n the absence of updated
requirements, the U.S. markets are more vulnerable than those in other
jurisdictions to . . . exploitat[ion] of the 10-day window.”46 The evidence provided
above indicates that, in terms of pre-disclosure accumulations, the practical
difference between the current ten-day window and the shorter windows used in
the countries described in the Petition is likely much less significant than the
Petition assumes.
        Beyond its implications for the policy debate over the rules governing
blockholder disclosure, the evidence provided by Figure 4 also identifies an
interesting issue for additional research: Why is trading volume concentrated in
the single day in which the activist crosses the 5% threshold? One possible
explanation may be that activist hedge funds cross the threshold only when they
are able to identify a seller of a large block of shares—and only then choose to
provide liquidity to this seller.47 Still, given that the activist hedge fund will not be
required to disclose its stake for ten days after such a purchase—providing it with
an opportunity to acquire additional shares at lower prices—one still might ask
why we do not observe abnormal levels of trading volume that are more evenly



        42
             See Katz & McIntosh, supra note 4, at 4 (citing Disclosure Rules and
Transparency Rules, 2012, Fin. Servs. Auth. Handbook, ch. 5 (U.K.), available at
http://fsahandbook.info/FSA/html/handbook/DTR/5).
         43
            See Katz & McIntosh, supra note 4, at 4 (citing Takeover Panels, Guidance
Note 20: Equity Derivatives (Austl.)).
         44
            See Katz & McIntosh, supra note 4, at 4 (citing Province of Ontario Securities
Act, R.S.O 1990, c. S.5, § 102.1 (Can.)).
         45
            See Katz & McIntosh, supra note 4, at 4 (citing Hong Kong Securities and
Futures Ordinance, No. 571, (2003), pt. XV).
         46
            See Katz & McIntosh, supra note 4, at 4.
47
   Activist trading in the period leading to the filing of a Schedule 13D and the
implication of such trading for liquidity is studied in Collin-Dufresne & Fos, supra note
36, as well as in Nickolay Gantchev & Pab Jotikasthira, Hedge Fund Activists: Do They
Take Cues From Institutional Exit? (Feb. 2013) (unpublished manuscript, on file with
authors), available at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2139482.


                                           27
                Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




distributed over the ten-day period. We hope that this question will be addressed
by future research.

              VII. DISCLOSURE REFORM AND LOW-THRESHOLD POISON PILLS

         In this Part, we provide evidence on the recent proliferation of low-
threshold poison pills and discuss the relevance of this empirical phenomenon to
the Petition’s proposal to reform the rules governing disclosure under Section
13(d).48 We argue that any consideration of reforming these rules should take into
account the interaction of such reforms with the use of these poison pills. In
particular, in our view, the SEC should avoid adopting any reform that would
facilitate the use of low-threshold poison pills. Accordingly, if the SEC does
choose to tighten the disclosure rules under Section 13(d), any such tightening
should be applied only to companies that adopt corporate-law arrangements that
preclude the adoption of low-trigger poison pills.49

        As we have noted, the Petition’s supporters have argued that requiring
investors to disclose their petition more quickly will benefit public investors by
enabling selling shareholders to obtain higher prices for their stock.50 Of course,
any such benefit should be weighed against the costs to investors from
discouraging activist outside shareholders.51 Whatever view one takes of this
tradeoff, however, it is clear that earlier disclosure under Section 13(d) would
provide significant benefits to corporate insiders. In particular, tightening the
disclosure requirements under Section 13(d) will not only alert the market to the
investor’s presence but also incumbent directors and executives—who can then
put takeover defenses in place more quickly in response to the news that a
significant shareholder has emerged.


48
   This Part draws on a recent New York Times column by one of us. See Lucian A.
Bebchuk, Don’t Make Poison Pills More Deadly, N.Y. TIMES DEALBOOK (Feb. 7, 2013),
available at http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2013/02/07/dont-make-poison-pills-more-
deadly/.
49
    Any tightening of these rules should apply only to companies that adopt charter
arrangements that preclude the use of low-trigger poison pills. Such charter provisions
could then only be altered with the mutual assent of the company’s board of directors and
its shareholders. See DEL. GEN. CORP. L. § 242(b).
50
   See Petition, supra note 1, at 4.
51
   See Bebchuk & Jackson, supra note 5, at ___.


                                           28
                 Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




       The initial drafters of what is now Section 13(d) envisioned a landscape
that would allow outside investors who were not seeking control of a public
company to accumulate stakes beyond the 5% threshold, provided that they made
the required disclosures.52 But companies in the United States have increasingly
been using poison pills with low thresholds to limit the stakes that outside
shareholders can acquire.
        Poison pills were developed in the 1980s to enable incumbent directors
and executives to block a hostile acquisition of the firm.53 Over time, however—
and without sufficient attention from investors or public officials—public
companies in the United States have started to use poison pills to prevent
acquisitions of stakes that fall substantially short of a controlling block.54
Available data indicates that an increasingly large group of public companies has
moved in this direction. Table 10 below describes, for a sample of 805 public
companies that currently have a poison pill in place, the thresholds that trigger the
pill:

          Table 10: Poison-Pill Thresholds at U.S. Public Companies55
                Triggering          Number of       Percentage of All
                Threshold           Companies         Companies
                10% Or Less             121                15%
                    15%                 491                61%
                15% Or More             193                24%


52
   See id. at ___ (noting that the principal drafter of Section 13(d), Senator Harrison A.
Williams, initially proposed a provision that would have made it unlawful for an investor
to accumulate stock beyond the threshold without prior disclosure, but later withdrew that
proposal and replaced it with one that sought to “balance the scales equally to protect the
legitimate interests of the corporation, management, and shareholders” (citing 113 Cong.
Rec. 854 (1967)).
53
   See, e.g., William T. Allen et al., Commentaries and Cases on the Law of Business
Organization 522-523 (4th ed. 2012) (describing this history).
54
   See, e.g., id. at 524 n.20 (“When [poison pills] were first introduced in the 1980s,
triggering events typically involved 30 percent of the company’s stock. The size of the
triggering threshold has steadily receded, however, and since 1990s, triggers have
typically been 10 percent.”).
55
   The data described in Table 10 were drawn from the Sharkrepellant database, which
tracks the terms of poison-pill arrangements at U.S. public companies. See FACTSET
RESEARCH        SYSTEMS,       INC.,    DATASET,       SHARKREPELLANT,      available    at
http://sharkrepellant.net (last visited April 8, 2012).


                                            29
                Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




        Incumbent directors’ and executives’ freedom—and propensity—to adopt
low-trigger poison pills is a highly relevant factor for any assessment of the rules
governing the relationship between incumbents and outside shareholders. In
particular, the SEC should recognize that tightening the current disclosure
requirements under Section 13(d) could impose substantial costs on public
investors and the economy by facilitating the use of such pills.
        Consider, for example, a situation in which an outside investor opposed by
management makes a public announcement immediately upon accumulating a 5%
stake in the company. Then suppose that the company quickly adopts a poison pill
with a low threshold that prevents, or significantly limits, further accumulation of
stock by the buyer. In this case, the company’s response to the immediate
disclosure would not enable public investors to capture higher prices for shares
they sell to the large shareholder; to the contrary, it would prevent these investors
from selling shares to the outside shareholder at mutually beneficial prices.
Furthermore, by entrenching insiders and insulating them from engagement by
large outside shareholders, low-threshold poison pills could well impose costs on
even those public shareholders who do not wish to sell their shares.
        If the SEC does determine that tightening the disclosure rules under
Section 13(d) is desirable, it should design its rules to avoid aiding the use of low-
trigger poison pills. This could be done, for example, by limiting the application
of any tightened disclosure rules to companies with charter provisions that
prohibit the use of low-threshold poison pills. Proponents of the Petition—which
has so far failed to attract any support from institutional investors—should
endorse including such a limitation in any reform. Doing so is necessary to
address the concern that tightened disclosure rules are aimed at protecting
entrenched insiders rather than public investors.
        Furthermore, stressing that other advanced economies have shorter
windows in which large shareholders must disclose significant stakes, the
proponents of the Petition have urged the SEC to follow the example of these
jurisdictions.56 It is worth noting, therefore, that no other developed economy


56
  See, e.g., Emmerich et al., supra note 7, at 16 (noting the examples of Australia, the
United Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy and Spain).


                                          30
               Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




grants corporate insiders the freedom to cap the ownership of blockholders they
disfavor through the use of low-trigger poison pills, as is now permitted in the
United States.
        Thus, if the SEC adopts tightened disclosure rules that apply to companies
that are also permitted to adopt low-threshold poison pills, outside shareholders in
the United States would, overall, be at a significant disadvantage relative to their
counterparts in other countries. Thus—to the extent that the Petition’s supporters
genuinely wish to draw from the experience of other jurisdictions—these
considerations should also lead them to incorporate into any tightening of the
SEC’s rules under Section 13(d) a limitation applying the tightened rules only to
companies that have charter provisions prohibiting the adoption of low-trigger
poison pills.
        Even if the proponents of the Petition continue to insist upon rules that
would facilitate low-threshold poison pills, the SEC should decline to pursue this
objective. Given its mandate to protect investors, the SEC should ensure that it
does not take any action that would harm public-company investors by facilitating
the use of low-trigger poison pills.

                                    VIII. CONCLUSION

       Policymakers are now engaged in a significant debate over whether to
tighten the rules governing the disclosure of accumulations of large blocks of
stock in public companies. The Petition urging that these rules be tightened,
however, is premised upon several factual assertions for which the Petition offers
no empirical evidence. In this Article, we provide the first systematic empirical
assessment of these assertions in order to contribute to the ongoing debate over
whether changes to the rules are warranted.

        We find that the evidence does not support some of the key factual claims
on which the Petition relies. Although the Petition asserts that changes in trading
technology over time have allowed activist investors to engage in significant
acquisitions of stock above the 5% threshold, the data show that the size of pre-
disclosure accumulations of stock has not increased over time. Thus, changes in
the existing rules could perhaps be justified as necessary to address longstanding
policy questions—but not as the “modernization” of the rules that the Petition
claims is needed.


                                        31
               Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




        We also show that tightening the rules under Section 13(d) will carry
considerable costs for investors that the SEC should consider, as changes to these
rules would apply to a much larger group of non-activist investors beyond the
activists on which the Petition focuses. Before making changes to the existing
rules under Section 13(d), the SEC should evaluate the costs of any such changes
for these non-activist investors.
        The evidence also shows that abnormal trading is concentrated on the day
an activist investor crosses the 5% threshold. This finding suggests that the
practical difference in pre-disclosure accumulations between the existing ten-day
window in the United States and the rules in countries with shorter disclosure
windows—regimes held out as models for reform in the Petition—is likely
significantly smaller than the Petition suggests. The pattern we identify also raises
important questions for future research.
       Finally, we have provided evidence on the recent proliferation of low-
threshold poison pills—and the relevance of this development to any tightening of
the SEC’s rules under Section 13(d). Insiders’ freedom to adopt such low-trigger
poison pills, we have argued, suggests that the SEC should avoid adopting any
reform that would facilitate the use of such pills to limit the stakes that outside
investors can acquire in public companies. Thus, we have shown, if the SEC does
choose to tighten the disclosure rules under Section 13(d), any such tightening
should be applied only to companies that adopt corporate-law arrangements that
preclude the adoption of low-trigger poison pills.
       Beyond these findings and policy implications, we have provided an
empirical foundation on which the SEC, and future researchers, can build in
evaluating the critical questions that will determine whether changing the existing
rules governing blockholder disclosure is desirable. We hope that our analysis
will be useful for the SEC and for other scholars as they pursue these important
questions.




                                         32
                Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




                                   APPENDIX

                                       I. DATA

       The evidence presented in the Article is based on data drawn from filings
pursuant to Section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Section 13(d)
requires investors who are beneficial owners of more than 5% of any class of
publicly traded securities to disclose their ownership within 10 days of crossing
the 5% threshold. All of the filings used to assemble the dataset are available on
the SEC’s website, and all of the data used in this Article are available upon
request.

                                A. Dataset Assembly

       As noted in the text, we use a top-down approach to construct a
comprehensive sample of activism events that involve Section 13(d) filings by
hedge funds during our sample period. We begin with a list of all filers of
Schedule 13D during our period and filter this group through a list of activist
hedge funds.57 We identify hedge fund managers among the group of all filers
based on the names and descriptions provided pursuant to Item 2 of Schedule
13D,58 combined with Internet and news searches on the filers’ identities.

         Having identified the activist hedge funds to be included in our principal
sample, we draw information on each event from each Schedule 13D. A Schedule
13D filing is a rich source of information, providing details on the identity of the
filer, the shareholder’s ownership, and the purpose of the investment.59 As noted
in the text, we collect this information for 2,040 filings by activist hedge funds
from 1994 through 2007. These data provide extensive detail on pre-disclosure
accumulations for activist hedge funds during our sample period.


57
   Although there is no formal legal definition of a hedge fund, we adopt the generally
accepted notion that a hedge fund is a pooled private investment vehicle that generally
adopts performance-based compensation and is operated outside of the registration
requirements of the federal securities laws.
58
   See Securities and Exchange Commission, Form of Schedule 13D, 17 C.F.R. § 240.13d
(2010).
59
   See id. at Items 3 and 4.


                                          33
                 Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




                               B. Constructed Variables

        We then supplement the information drawn from Schedule 13D with
additional information on each activism event. Based upon our review of the
description of the investment provided in Schedule 13D,60 we code each event
with a dummy variable indicating whether the investor has taken a hostile stance
against the company’s management, as well as variables indicating the purpose of
the investment.61

        We also supplement the data drawn from Schedule 13D with variables
addressing company-specific characteristics. To assess company size, we draw
information on the ratio of the market capitalization of each company to the
median value of all public companies at the end of the year prior to the Schedule
13D filing. We also include the number of analysts covering the company at the
end of the year prior to the Schedule 13D filing in our dataset.62 Building on
previous work, we separately identify the relative liquidity of the market for each
company’s stock, using daily trading data, and include that information in our
dataset as well.63 We also supplement the dataset with information on the size-
adjusted stock returns of each company for the year before the Schedule 13D
filing, adjusted for the value-weighted return of a portfolio of stocks of similar
size. Finally, we draw information on the buy-and-hold return for each company
during the twenty-day period before, and twenty-day period after, the Schedule
13D filing that is in excess of the market return during the same period. These


60
   See id. at Item 4.
61
   An event is classified as hostile if it involves open confrontation between the investor
and the company’s management. For example, when the hedge fund threatens to wage a
proxy fight in order to gain board representation, or to sue the company for breach of
fiduciary duty, we classify these events as hostile. Hostility also involves events in which
the hedge fund launches a proxy contest in order to replace the board, sues the
company or states that it intends to take control of the company.
62
    We identify these analysts through the First Call analyst database. See THOMPSON
REUTERS, FIRST CALL ANALYST DATABASE (last accessed February 20, 2013), available
at       http://thomsonreuters.com/products_services/financial/financial_        products/a-
z/first_call/.
63
    We use the Amihud measure as a proxy for market liquidity. See Yakov Amihud,
Illiquidity and Stock Returns: Cross-Section and Time-Series Events, 31 J. FIN. MKTS. 31
(2002).


                                            34
               Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




variables allow us to control for both event-specific and company-specific
characteristics in the analysis that follows.

                                       II. ANALYSIS

                     A. Determinants of the Time to Disclose

         To explore the potential relationship between the number of days activists
wait to file their disclosures under Section 13(d) and the percentage ownership
that is revealed in those findings, we specify two types of multivariate regression
models in which the dependent variable is the number of days that pass after the
day on which the activist crosses the 5% threshold before the activist discloses its
position under Section 13(d). Models (a) through (c) provide the estimated
coefficients and standard identifiers of statistical significance for ordered logit
models; models (d) through (f) describe the results for two-sided tobit models.
Models (a) and (d) include the controls described in the table below, while models
(b) and (e) introduce a dummy variable, described above, controlling for whether
the activist’s disclosure identified a hostile posture towards management. Models
(c) and (f) include controls for dummy variables identifying the objective, if any,
identified in the activist’s filings, as well as controls for dummy variables
identifying the tactics the activist used to pursue those objectives.




                                        35
                 Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




             Table A1: Determinants of the Number of Days Until
                   Activist Investors Disclose their Positions
                                                        Two‐Sided Tobit
                      Ordered Logit Models
                                                           Models
                      (a)        (b)       (c)        (d)        (e)     (f)
  Hostile                      ‐0.27                        ‐1.25**
  (Initial)                  [‐1.58]                         [‐2.25]
  MV Ratio to      0.10*      0.10*    0.11**     0.34*       0.36*  0.40**
  Median          [1.74]      [1.83]   [2.03]     [1.81]     [1.92]   [2.15]
  Institutional     0.19       0.71      0.15       0.85       0.77    0.80
  Ownership       [0.76]      [0.70]   [0.62]     [1.01]     [0.92]   [0.97]
  # Analyst        ‐0.07       ‐0.07     ‐0.0      ‐0.43     ‐0.44*  ‐0.42*
  (Log)           [‐0.92]     [0.94]   [‐0.91] [‐1.63]       [‐1.67] [‐1.59]
  Amihud
                     0.04       0.04      0.04      0.07       0.05       0.07
  Liquidity
                    [0.33]     [0.30]    [0.30]    [0.18]     [0.12]     [0.18]
  Measure
  Stock Return
  (Size             ‐0.21**   ‐0.21**   ‐0.21**   ‐0.82**    ‐0.84**    ‐0.81**
  Adjusted)         [‐2.02]   [‐2.06]   [‐2.08]   [‐2.38]    [‐2.44]    [‐2.39]

  Percentage
                     ‐1.53     ‐1.44     ‐1.63      ‐4.94      ‐4.54      ‐5.36
  Ownership
                    [‐1.55]   [‐1.46]   [‐1.58]    [‐1.45]    [1.34]     [‐1.55]
  at Filing
  Short‐Run
                    0.44**     0.46**    0.49**    1.75**     1.85**     1.94**
  Abnormal
                    [2.03]     [2.12]    [2.24]    [2.36]     [2.51]     [2.64]
  Return
  Year Fixed
                       Yes       Yes       Yes       Yes        Yes         Yes
  Effects?
  Pseudo R2         2.51%     2.60%      4.11%
  Observations        1,398     1,398    1,398      1,398      1,398      1,398


                 B. Determinants of Ownership Stakes upon Filing

To identify the factors that determine activist investors’ ownership stakes at the
time they disclose their positions under Section 13(d), we specify multivariate
regression models in which the investor’s percentage ownership at the time of the
filing is the dependent variable. Model (c) includes controls for dummy variables
identifying the objective, if any, identified in the activist’s filings, as well as
controls for dummy variables identifying tactics the activist used to pursue those
objectives.
                                        36
                   Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




                  Table A2: Determinants of Hedge Fund Activists’
                         Ownership Stake at the Time of Filing
                                     (a)              (b)           (c)
       Hostile (Initial)                           0.009**
                                                    [2.05]
       MV Ratio to Median        ‐0.003*          ‐0.003*       ‐0.001
       (Log)                     [‐1.72]          [‐1.81]       [‐0.89]
       Institutional              ‐0.003            ‐0.002      ‐0.002
       Ownership                 [‐0.43]            [‐0.36]     [‐0.36]
       Number of Analysts           ‐0.002                ‐0.003    ‐0.002
       (Log)                        [‐1.04]               [‐1.59]   [‐1.06]
       Amihud Liquidity              0.008**             0.008***   0.009***
       Measure                        [2.45]              [2.49]       [2.68]
       Stock Return (Size            ‐0.004               ‐0.003    ‐0.003
       Adjusted)                     [‐1.34]              [‐1.27]   [‐1.19]
       Short‐Run                     0.006               0.005       0.002
       Abnormal Return               [1.06]              [0.95]      [0.39]
       Number of Days To           ‐0.001*               ‐0.001*    ‐0.001*
       Disclosure                  [‐1.83]               [‐1.68]    [‐1.85]
       Year Fixed Effects?             Yes                  Yes          Yes
       R2                             5.3%                5.6%          11.8%
       Observations                   1,398               1,398         1,398


        As noted in the text, the analysis described in Table A2 offers no evidence
suggesting that activists who wait longer to disclose under Section 13(d) emerge
with larger stakes when they reveal their positions.64 In fact, as noted in Table A2,
a longer time before disclosure is associated with lower ownership at the time of
filing. This relationship is marginally statistically significant, but the economic
magnitude is small: even ten additional days to file (the maximum variation) is
associated with just 0.6 percentage points less ownership. Nevertheless, the
analysis described in Table A2 provides no support for the claim that investors



64
     See supra text accompanying notes 19-20 & tbl. 4.


                                               37
                Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




who take longer to disclose their stakes under Section 13(d) emerge with larger
positions when they eventually disclose their investments.

                     C. Activists’ Ownership Stakes over Time

        To explore whether activists have disclosed increasingly large stakes in
excess of the 5% threshold over time, we specify multivariate regression models
in which the dependent variable is the percentage of ownership disclosed by the
activists in our sample, controlling for the other potential determinants of that
percentage described in Table A2 above. Unlike in those models, however, where
we employed year fixed effects to control for the passage of time,65 here we use a
year-trend variable along with a dummy variable indicating whether the
observation occurred in the last five years of our sample, to examine whether the
disclosed ownership percentage increases over time.

                Table A3: Activists’ Disclosed Stake Over Time
                                                   (a)              (b)
            MV Ratio to Median (Log)            ‐0.003**         ‐0.004**
                                                 [‐2.15]          [‐2.46]
            Institutional Ownership              ‐0.004           ‐0.001
                                                 [‐0.53]          [‐0.15]
            Number of Analysts (Log)             ‐0.002           ‐0.002
                                                 [‐0.80]          [‐0.78]
            Amihud Liquidity                     0.006**          0.006**
            Measure                               [2.01]           [1.87]
            Stock Return                         ‐0.004           ‐0.004
            (Size Adjusted)                      [‐1.38]          [‐1.31]
            Short‐Run Abnormal                   0.005            0.004
            Return                               [0.81]           [0.79]
            Number of Days To                   ‐0.001*         ‐0.001*
            Disclosure                          [‐1.76]         [‐1.92]

            Year Trend                          ‐0.0001
                                                 [‐0.20]



65
  See supra Table A2 (noting that all three models use year fixed effects to control for
the passage of time).


                                          38
   Pre-Disclosure Accumulations by Activist Investors




Last Five Years of Sample                       ‐0.004
Dummy Variable                                  [‐1.32]
Psuedo R2                        3.8%           3.9%
Observations                     1,398           1,398




                            39
