Returns to Hedge Fund Activism:
An International Study

Finance Working Paper N° 402/2014
May 2017

Marco Becht

Solvay Brussels School, Université Libre de
Bruxelles, CEPR and ECGI

Julian Franks

London Business School, CEPR and ECGI

Jeremy Grant
Berenberg Bank

Hannes Wagner

Bocconi University and IGIER

© Marco Becht, Julian Franks, Jeremy Grant and
Hannes Wagner 2017. All rights reserved. Short
sections of text, not to exceed two paragraphs, may
be quoted without explicit permission provided that
full credit, including © notice, is given to the source.
This paper can be downloaded without charge from:
http://ssrn.com/abstract=2376271
www.ecgi.org/wp

ECGI Working Paper Series in Finance

Returns to Hedge Fund Activism:
An International Study
Working Paper N° 402/2014
May 2017

Marco Becht
Julian Franks
Jeremy Grant
Hannes Wagner
We are grateful to Robin Greenwood and Andrew Karolyi (the editors); two anonymous referees;
and John Armour, Tara Bhandari, Alon Brav, Nick Gantchev, Pedro Matos, Janis Skrastins, Oren
Sussman, Phillip Goldstein (Bulldog Investors), David Trenchard (formerly Knight Vinke), John
ArmstrongDenby (Edmond de Rothschild), and Mark Levine (Elliott Management). We also
thank the participants at the Transatlantic Corporate Governance Dialogue (TCGD) in Washington
DC in December 2011, the EU-ASIA Corporate Governance Dialogue Inaugural Conference in
Tokyo in June 2012, the European Financial Management Association in Rome in June 2014,
the European Finance Association in Lugano in August 2014, the 4nations Cup in Rome in May
2015, and the Western Finance Association in Seattle in June 2015 and seminar participants at Bar
Ilan, Bocconi University, the Hanken School of Economics, Koç Business School, the London
Business School, Luxembourg School of Finance, Rotterdam University, University of Oxford,
and Tilburg University for comments. Song Zhang and Yordana Mavrodieva provided excellent
research assistance. We acknowledge research support from the ESRC [grant no. R060230004], the
London Business School’s Centre for Corporate Governance, the BNP Paribas Hedge Fund Centre,
the Goldschmidt Chair at the Solvay Brussels School of Economics and Management, Université
libre de Bruxelles, and the PEGGED (Politics, Economics and Global Governance: The European
Dimensions) collaborative research project supported by the Seventh Framework Programme for
Research and Technological Development [contract no. SSH7-CT-2008-217559].
© Marco Becht, Julian Franks, Jeremy Grant and Hannes Wagner 2017. All rights reserved. Short
sections of text, not to exceed two paragraphs, may be quoted without explicit permission provided
that full credit, including © notice, is given to the source.

Abstract
This paper provides evidence on the incidence, characteristics, and performance of activist
engagements across countries. We find that the incidence of activism is greatest with high
institutional ownership, particularly for U.S. institutions. We use a sample of 1,740 activist
engagements across 23 countries and find that almost one-quarter of engagements are
by multi-activists engaging the same target. These engagements perform strikingly better
than single activist engagements. Engagement outcomes, such as board changes and
takeovers, vary across countries and significantly contribute to the returns to activism.
Japan is an exception, with high initial expectations and low outcomes.
Keywords: Shareholder activism, hedge funds, active ownership, institutional investors
JEL Classifications: G32

Marco Becht*

Professor of Finance and Economics
Universite libre de Bruxelles, Solvay Brussels School
Avenue F. D. Roosevelt 50, CP114
1050 Brussels, Belgium
phone: +32 2 650 4466, fax: +32 2 650 4012
e-mail: mbecht@ulb.ac.be

Julian Franks

Professor of Finance
London Business School, Institute of Finance and Accounting
Sussex Place - Regent’s Park
London NW1 4SA, United Kingdom
phone: +44 20 7262 5050, fax: +44 20 7724 3317
e-mail: jfranks@london.edu

Jeremy Grant

Berenberg
60 Threadneedle St
London, EC2 8HP, United Kingdom
e-mail: jeremy_2238@yahoo.co.uk

Hannes Wagner

Associate Professor of Finance
Bocconi University, Department of Finance
Via Roentgen 1
20136 Milan, Italy
phone: +39 025 836 3528, fax: +39 025 836 3698
e-mail: hannes.wagner@unibocconi.it
*Corresponding Author

Returns to Hedge Fund Activism: An International Study
Marco Becht
Solvay Brussels School, Université libre de Bruxelles, CEPR, and ECGI
Julian Franks
London Business School, CEPR, and ECGI
Jeremy Grant
Berenberg Bank
Hannes F. Wagner
Bocconi University and IGIER

Review of Financial Studies, forthcoming

27 May 2014
Revised 15 September 2016
We are grateful to Robin Greenwood and Andrew Karolyi (the editors); two anonymous referees; and
John Armour, Tara Bhandari, Alon Brav, Nick Gantchev, Pedro Matos, Janis Skrastins, Oren Sussman,
Phillip Goldstein (Bulldog Investors), David Trenchard (formerly Knight Vinke), John ArmstrongDenby (Edmond de Rothschild), and Mark Levine (Elliott Management). We also thank the
participants at the Transatlantic Corporate Governance Dialogue (TCGD) in Washington DC in
December 2011, the EU-ASIA Corporate Governance Dialogue Inaugural Conference in Tokyo in June
2012, the European Financial Management Association in Rome in June 2014, the European Finance
Association in Lugano in August 2014, the 4nations Cup in Rome in May 2015, and the Western
Finance Association in Seattle in June 2015 and seminar participants at Bar Ilan, Bocconi University,
the Hanken School of Economics, Koç Business School, the London Business School, Luxembourg
School of Finance, Rotterdam University, University of Oxford, and Tilburg University for comments.
Song Zhang and Yordana Mavrodieva provided excellent research assistance. We acknowledge
research support from the ESRC [grant no. R060230004], the London Business School’s Centre for
Corporate Governance, the BNP Paribas Hedge Fund Centre, the Goldschmidt Chair at the Solvay
Brussels School of Economics and Management, Université libre de Bruxelles, and the PEGGED
(Politics, Economics and Global Governance: The European Dimensions) collaborative research
project supported by the Seventh Framework Programme for Research and Technological
Development [contract no. SSH7-CT-2008-217559]. Send correspondence to Marco Becht, Universite
libre de Bruxelles, Avenue F. D. Roosevelt 50, CP114, 1050 Brussels, Belgium; telephone: +32 2 650
4466. E-mail: mbecht@ulb.ac.be.

Returns to Hedge Fund Activism: An International Study

Abstract
This paper provides evidence on the incidence, characteristics, and performance of activist
engagements across countries. We find that the incidence of activism is greatest with high institutional
ownership, particularly for U.S. institutions. We use a sample of 1,740 activist engagements across 23
countries and find that almost one-quarter of engagements are by multi-activists engaging the same
target. These engagements perform strikingly better than single activist engagements. Engagement
outcomes, such as board changes and takeovers, vary across countries and significantly contribute to
the returns to activism. Japan is an exception, with high initial expectations and low outcomes. (JEL
G32)

This paper provides evidence on the incidence, characteristics, and performance of activist
engagements across countries. The scope of this paper allows us to address the question of how
different patterns of ownership and institutional arrangements influence the growth and performance
of activism. Our paper is the first comparative study of publicly observable activism across 23
countries in Asia, Europe, and North America. We analyze 1,740 activist interventions, mainly
initiated by hedge funds and focus funds, for the 2000-2010 period. The three largest markets for
shareholder activism are the United States (1,125 interventions), Japan (184 interventions), and the
United Kingdom (165 interventions). Despite this apparent concentration, activism is a significant
phenomenon relative to the size of stock markets in other countries (e.g., Italy). Further, because
activists hold limited stakes—11%, on average—they require the support of other investors, including
pension funds and other activists. We interpret our results as showing that the pattern of ownership is
an important source of influence on activism activity across countries.
Our sample covers 330 different activist funds. Most funds have a clear domestic focus, but
foreign engagements account for 24% of the total, roughly equally split between U.S.-based and nonU.S.-based activists, allowing us to compare domestic and foreign models of activism. Hedge fund
engagements frequently involve more than one hedge fund (“wolf pack”) that may coordinate
formally or informally. We estimate that wolf packs are associated with almost one quarter of all
engagements and we show that they achieve some of the highest returns for target shareholders.
How do activist engagements perform? The conventional measure of activists’ performance is
the abnormal return around the public announcement of the activist’s stake. We find abnormal
announcement returns of 7.0% for the United States during a (-20, 20) day window, which are virtually
identical to those reported by Brav et al. (2008) and related studies. The European and Asian

1

announcement returns are significant at 4.8% and 6.4%, respectively, and are comparable to the United
States.
How successful are activists in their engagements with target firms? For this analysis, we
identify the outcomes of each engagement, including changes to payout policy, governance, corporate
restructuring and takeovers. Compiling data on activist outcomes internationally is particularly
challenging; while activists engaging U.S.-listed firms need to provide information on the stated
purpose of their investment in Schedule 13D filings, no exact equivalent exists elsewhere. Through
extensive news searches, we identify outcomes of the engagements.
For the entire sample, the unconditional probability of an activist being successful in achieving
at least one engagement outcome is 53%. However, the incidence of outcomes varies considerably
across countries. In North America activists achieve outcomes in 61% of all engagements and 50% in
Europe, but only 18% in Asia. Japan, in particular, is a country of unfulfilled expectations with high
disclosure returns but very few outcomes.
We also show that the incidence of engagement outcomes and the type of outcome dramatically
affect the abnormal returns over the entire engagement, from block disclosure to exit. The
announcement of an engagement outcome contributes significantly to holding period returns during the
engagement. Abnormal returns around the announcement of outcomes average 6.4% across all
countries during a (-20, 20) window, with the highest returns of 8.8% in Europe, 6.0% in North
America and 2.7% in Asia. These returns are in addition to the block disclosure returns for the
subsample of engagements with successful outcomes. To investigate the potential importance of
governance changes initiated by the activist, we test whether engagements with multiple outcomes, for
example, a board change or spin-off followed by a takeover, have a higher total return than a single
outcome, such as a takeover. The differences are striking, particularly engagements with multiple

2

outcomes that involve a takeover have abnormal returns of 18.1%, whereas those engagements with
only the outcome of a takeover have abnormal returns of roughly half that size (9.7%).
Disclosure returns should reflect the expected value from a successful engagement with an
outcome and the expected value from a “no outcome” result, weighted by their respective probabilities.
When it becomes clear that there will be no successful engagement, we expect the stock price reaction
to the block disclosure announcement to reverse itself. To test this, we compare abnormal returns from
the first disclosure date of the engagement by the activist to its disclosed exit for two subsamples of
engagements, with and without outcomes.
On an annualized basis using a Fama-French four-factor model, activism with outcomes
generates value-weighted abnormal returns over the engagement period of 8.0%, compared with 2.3%
for activism without outcomes. When returns are equal-weighted, activism with outcomes generates
annualized abnormal returns of just 1.1%, compared with minus 9.8% without. Activism therefore
generates positive alpha on average in large firms, but in all engagements the returns crucially depend
on the activist achieving outcomes. The differences are economically significant, and usually
statistically significant. Our interpretation is that the achievement of outcomes resolves the uncertainty
at the block disclosure date about the activist’s chances of success.1 Results by region confirm that
outcomes are always crucial for generating positive abnormal returns.
Our results make several contributions to the literature. To our knowledge, we are the first to
document the incidence, performance, and specific outcomes of activist engagements for a large crosssection of companies in different countries. We base our analysis on a standardized set of engagements
and engagement outcomes that allows us to perform tests across jurisdictions.

1 We find that fund size, measured by number of engagements during the sample period, does not affect performance. We

classify large funds as those having at least 20 engagements in our sample. We test whether large funds exhibit different
performance from other funds with respect to initial public disclosure, engagement outcomes, and long-term performance
from entry to exit. We do not find any evidence of differential performance.

3

Second, we extend prior work by Clifford (2008), Klein and Zur (2008), Gantchev (2013),
Bebchuk, Brav, and Jiang (2014), Brav et al. (2014), and particularly Brav et al. (2008), and
Greenwood and Schor (2009), who analyze the short-term and long-term performance of U.S. target
firms. We show that activism outside the United States similarly depends on the activist achieving
outcomes. We also show that takeovers that are preceded by governance changes, such as a board
turnover or other restructurings, are much more profitable than takeovers on their own. This result
extends and modifies the evidence in Greenwood and Schor (2009), who argue that activists “put
companies into play.”
Third, we use our international data set to compare domestic against foreign activism and U.S.
activists against their foreign peers. Most prior research has focused on domestic activism in the United
States, and our paper is the first to compare the performance of U.S. activists at home with the
performance of U.S. activists abroad, as well as a comparison of other non-U.S. activists at home and
abroad. We find that domestic activism outperforms foreign activism, everywhere.
Fourth, our findings complement the prior literature focusing on the role of institutional
investors and specifically foreign institutional investors for shareholder value (e.g., Gillan and Starks
2003; Ferreira and Matos 2008; Leuz, Lins, and Warnock 2009; Aggarwal et al. 2009; especially
Aggarwal et al. 2011). This paper shows that hedge fund activism is an important channel of influence
for institutional investors. Hedge fund activists seek out targets with high institutional ownership;
outside the United States, foreign and, in particular, (foreign) U.S. institutions play a key role. The
results are consistent with case study evidence that shows that domestic institutional investors are less
willing to collaborate with more aggressive U.S. or U.K. activists.
Fifth, we provide the first comprehensive evidence of hedge fund wolf packs internationally.
Wolf pack formation is a choice variable for the activist, and conditional on a wolf pack arising, it is
the most profitable type of engagement, reflecting the high probability of achieving successful
4

outcomes. The success of wolf packs is related only in small part to their larger aggregated stakes. This
is consistent with highly profitable engagements attracting multiple funds. However, we cannot
distinguish whether the superior performance is due to active coordination amongst the hedge funds or
simply the congregation of like-minded investors who expect a highly profitable engagement. Our
results contribute to the emerging literature on hedge fund wolf packs (see Brav, Dasgupta, and
Mathews 2016; Coffee and Palia 2016).
1. Data Description
1.1 Database construction
We construct an international database of hedge fund activist engagements that includes 23
countries from three regions, Asia, Europe, and North America. The data were hand-collected for Asia,
Europe, and Canada; for the United States, we relied on 13D Monitor, a commercial provider. The data
include the initial disclosure date of the activist block, the block size, the identity, and country of origin
of the activist and the date when the engagement was completed. In addition, we collected data on the
successful outcomes of each hedge fund activist engagement, in particular on takeovers, other types of
corporate restructuring, board changes and changes in payout policy. We describe in the Internet
Appendix the search process, the data sources across countries, and how our U.S. data compare to those
compiled by Brav et al. (2008).
The final database includes 1,740 publicly disclosed hedge fund interventions in publicly traded
firms initiated between January 2000 and December 2010.2 Figure 1 describes the timeline of a stylized
activist engagement from entry (t=1) to exit (t=3).3 In case there are successful engagement outcomes
reported during the holding period, these are classified by type and recorded with their earliest
2 What we cannot capture is private activism, that is, activism that is disclosed to the target firm, but not to the wider public

and because of smaller stakes is not subject to regulatory disclosure.
3 The number of entry disclosures and exits are reported in Table 11 in the Internet Appendix.

5

announcement dates (t=2). It is possible that there are multiple outcome announcements, for example, a
board change announcement that precedes a takeover announcement.
We combine the hedge fund activist database with data from several other sources. We obtain
from the FactSet ownership database (Lionshares) detailed information on the institutional investor
holdings for all firms included in our data set.4 FactSet data are available for 45 countries, including the
23 countries for which we observe at least one hedge fund activist engagement during the sample
period. The data cover institutional investors’ equity holdings collected directly from fund reports,
regulatory filings, and the fund management companies themselves; they include ordinary shares,
preferred shares, ADRs, Global Depositary Receipts (GDRs), and dual listings. We rely on the
methodology of Ferreira and Matos (2008) to obtain statistics on institutional holdings that include the
overall ownership of domestic and foreign institutions, broken down into U.S.-domiciled and non-U.S.
domiciled institutions.
To complete the database at the company level, we obtain annual firm financials from Factset
Fundamentals, and daily stock prices and trading volume data from CRSP for U.S. firms and from
Datastream for non-U.S. firms. At the country level, we collect data on the institutional and legal
environment, including Market cap/GDP, Rule of Law, and Control of Corruption; the minimum
regulatory disclosure threshold for blockholders; the Common Law indicator and the Revised AntiDirector Rights index from Djankov et al. (2008) and the G44 Quality of Governance index and its
components from Aggarwal et al. (2009).
1.2 Activism across countries
Table 1 reports our sample of activist engagements, broken down by country, and a number of countrylevel metrics related to activism.
4 The FactSet Ownership database has been previously used by, for example, Ferreira and Matos (2008), Ferreira, Massa,

and Matos (2010), and Aggarwal et al. (2011).

6

The 1,740 engagements are unevenly distributed across countries, with 85% concentrated in just
three countries: the United States with 1,125 interventions, Japan with 184 interventions, and the
United Kingdom with 165 interventions. Six other countries have at least twenty interventions:
Germany, Italy, France, South Korea, the Netherlands, and Canada (in declining order). In addition, the
table reports summary statistics for all 958 engagements in our sample for which we have FactSet
coverage, and for comparative purposes the same data for all other companies with FactSet coverage,
in each of the respective countries.
Engagement characteristics vary considerably across countries. First, in several markets
multiple activists are involved in the same engagement, that is, wolf packs; they are an important
feature of activism in France, Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden, and the United States, where they
involve more than 20% of engagements. Second, in a significant proportion of cases, the activist is a
foreign hedge fund, and frequently a U.S. hedge fund. For example, in the 53 engagements in
Germany, all activists were foreign hedge funds and more than half originated from the United States.
In contrast, in the United States, virtually all activists are domestic. The United Kingdom is an
intermediate case; a significant proportion of funds are domestic, and most of the remainder come from
the United States.
We also find similarities across markets. First, institutional holdings are important because
activists hold stakes that are on average 11% and therefore require the support of these investors to put
pressure on the company, for example, via board elections. There is significant variation across
countries in institutional holdings among the target firms engaged by a hedge fund activist; the median
holding in North America is 77% of shares issued, 24% in Europe, and only 7% in Asia. In most
countries institutional holdings are larger in targeted firms than in the population of companies
recorded in FactSet, as one would expect, and consistent with prior U.S. evidence.

7

Second, in most countries firms engaged by activists are larger than the median firm in that
market. Finland and Spain are the only exceptions, but activism in both countries is low in absolute
terms. Third, all jurisdictions in our sample require shareholders to disclose when stakes reach a
minimum threshold. We report disclosure thresholds as of the year 2000, and in the vast majority of
countries, this threshold is 5% of capital and/or voting rights, depending on the type of security.
Germany, Italy, Switzerland and the United Kingdom have lower thresholds of 2% or 3%, while
Canada is the only country with a higher threshold of 10%.5
While the United States and the United Kingdom have the largest number of engagements, in
relative terms activism is less frequent after adjusting for the number of listed companies than in Italy
or Germany. Table 2 shows activist activity as engagements per 1,000 listed firms. After the United
States, among large economies activism is relatively most frequent in Italy, the Netherlands, Germany
and Switzerland (in declining order), none of which are typically labeled as having active markets for
corporate control. The table also compares activism to unsolicited takeover bids. While activism differs
from hostile takeovers with respect to the size of ownership in the target firm, the comparison is useful
since the hostile takeovers are frequently used as a proxy for the level of managerial disciplining in a
capital market. In Asia activist engagements exceed hostile bids by 6.4 times (3.2/0.5), in North
America by 2.5 times, and in Europe by 1.6 times. Similar results obtain when we annualize activist
activity. Overall, activism appears widespread and frequent.
1.3 Wolf packs
Panel A of Table 3 provides further details on engagements involving multiple funds, that is,
wolf packs, previously reported in Table 1. The term “wolf pack” is an analogy to a group of wolves
attacking prey, where a lead wolf is visible and a potentially large number of pack members are not
5 To address the potential concern that cross-country differences in disclosure thresholds might create some type of bias in

our results, we exclude engagements where the initial activist stake is below 5% from our analysis. This excludes 273 out of
1,740 engagements in our sample. All of our performance results in later tables obtain for this smaller sample.

8

necessarily visible. The pack members communicate by “howling” (Harrington and Asa 2010). Under
U.S. securities laws such a coordinated pack would be considered a group and would have to notify a
joint stake. An alternative view articulated by Phil Goldstein, the CEO of Bulldog Investor (a hedge
fund activist), is that multiple funds can be found in the same engagement but without coordination,
rather like “if you go to a Grateful Dead concert, you’re going to find a lot of Grateful Dead fans,” he
said. “They’re not a group. They just like the same music.” (Wall Street Journal, 4 June 2015). From a
legal viewpoint, Coffee and Palia (2016) argue that hedge fund activists have managed to obtain the
benefits of pack hunting but the legal treatment of music fans. They define wolf packs as “a loose
network of activist investors that act in a parallel fashion, but deliberately avoid forming a “group”
under Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.” Brav, Dasgupta, and Mathews (2016)
model the formation of this type of pack, where a loose coalition of smaller investors forms around a
lead activist.
The foremost international wolf pack case is the 2005 activist engagement with Deutsche Börse
when the lead hedge fund (TCI) sent an e-mail to supervisory board members claiming support from 14
other funds, to abandon an acquisition attempt by Deutsche Börse for the London Stock Exchange.
German media referred to this group as an “alliance of locusts” (Pauly 2005). Participants included
three hedge funds with publicly observable stakes above the disclosure threshold (TCI, Atticus, and
Och-Ziff), eight hedge funds that at the time did not disclose their holdings (Harris, Seneca, Jana, Lone
Pine, Third Point, RIT, Alta, and Parvus) and other institutional investors (Capital Group, Fidelity,
Generali, and Merril Lynch). Combined, these investors owned 59% of the voting rights. The German
securities regulator (Bafin) investigated the case but did not conclude that these funds acted as a
group.6

6 An example from France serves to illustrate the (rare) case of explicit collaboration between activists: In 2006, Centaurus

Capital and Pardus Capital Management successfully engaged Atos Origin, a French information technology company

9

It is hard to measure the number of such groupings among hedge fund activist cases, because
the funds below the regulatory disclosure threshold are not observable, unless they voluntarily disclose
their holding. Investors like the Capital Group and Fidelity may or may not support the hedge fund.
Hence we use a restricted but empirically robust definition, where a wolf pack is simply defined as a
case where multiple hedge fund activists with a disclosed stake are involved in the same engagement.
They may or may not coordinate their activities but the disclosure of each fund is at least publicly
observable. There are 1,534 unique target companies involved in the 1,740 engagements.7
As panel A of Table 3 shows, in 22% of these cases there are at least two hedge funds in the
same engagement; of these, 77% involve two hedge funds, while 23% involve three or more. The
aggregate stakes held by wolf packs are higher than the stakes held in a single activist engagement,
13.4% versus 8.3%. We examine below the question whether such larger stakes increase the probability
of a successful engagement measured by the incidence of outcomes and whether packs have better
performance.

1.4 Do hedge funds engage targets internationally?
Panel B of Table 3 separates engagements into foreign and domestic by fund origin. We follow
Ferreira and Matos (2008) and consider the geographic origin of both target firm and activists. The
panel shows that 76% of the engagements are purely domestic, mostly in the United States. Regarding
(Bessière, Kaestner, and Lafont 2011). Centaurus disclosed a 5.5% stake in October 2006, followed by Pardus with a 7.3%
stake in August 2007. In October 2006, the two funds notified a concert party with a joint stake of 19.4%. The market
reaction to the disclosures was 7.8% for Centaurus, 1.7% for Pardus, and a further 5.5% for the joint stake. Since both hedge
funds notified the authorities that they were acting as a “concert party,” their stakes for regulatory purposes were
amalgamated, and they were free to coordinate.
7 The regulatory environment in some jurisdictions is not conducive to such wolf packs because of disclosure, “market
abuse,” and mandatory bid rules. A comparison of the United Kingdom, the United States, and Germany illustrates this. In
the United Kingdom, which has relatively restrictive rules, if one hedge fund informed another hedge fund about its
intention to increase its holdings, the latter would be considered an insider and would be prevented from trading in the
target’s shares. In the United States, which has less restrictive rules, in the same case the second fund generally would not
be prevented from trading. In Germany, rules appear to be the weakest, considering that the market regulator found no
market abuse in the Deutsche Börse case, although 5 of the 11 hedge funds in the pack were located in the same building in
London and three shared an office.

10

foreign engagements, U.K. funds engage relatively more frequently outside the United Kingdom than
do U.S. funds, but the number of foreign U.S. hedge fund engagements is the largest in absolute terms.
This is consistent with pattern of institutional ownership; U.S. foreign institutional ownership is the
largest in absolute terms. This raises the issue as to whether domestic activists perform better than
foreign activists, particularly those originating in the United States and targeting foreign companies.
We examine this issue below.
2. International Activism
In all markets, to generate positive returns activists must be able to bring about profitable
change in the target company, which is only possible when the fund has sufficient influence. Three key
factors can shape this influence: (1) the size of the hedge fund’s own stake, (2) support from other
shareholders, and (3) the institutions and the legal framework of a country. We review these in turn.
First, hedge fund activists rarely hold large stakes in the target company.8 For the entire sample,
the average stake held during the engagement is 11%. Average stakes vary relatively little across
countries: In the three main activist markets, average stakes are 11% in the United States, 13% in
Japan, and 13% in the United Kingdom. (Table 1).
Second, due to their relatively low percentage of total ownership, activists depend on support
from other shareholders. Block holders, such as families or founders and employee shareholders, will
generally support the incumbent directors. Foreign institutional investors, particularly U.S. investors,

8 The size of the stake acquired by a hedge fund activist in the United States, and thereby its voting power, is typically

limited to 10% by poison pill trigger thresholds and Section 16(b) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 that makes
the activist liable to pay “short swing” profits back to the company during a given six month period (Coffee and Palia
(2016)). Internationally mandatory bid thresholds, especially in Europe (European Commission (2012)), and poison pill
style triggers, especially in Japan (Milhaupt 2005, 2009), impose similar constraints. The European Union’s Takeover
Directive (2004/25/EC) imposes a mandatory bid requirement, typically at 30% or 33% of voting rights. Most countries
have supplemented the formal voting power thresholds with “de facto” control criteria that can trigger a bid requirement at
lower levels.

11

are more likely to cooperate with hedge fund activists. A closer examination of important cases from
Europe and Asia illustrates the importance of the ownership landscape and investors support.
2.1 Germany: Deutsche Börse (TCI and Atticus)
The previously detailed 2005 engagement of Deutsche Börse in Germany by the London-based
The Children’s Investment Fund Ltd (TCI) was important in demonstrating the ability of a foreign
activist fund to successfully engage with a blue chip target outside the United States, provided its
demands were supported by a sufficient number of investors. The engagement became possible because
Deutsche Börse had become a widely held company after its initial public offering in 2001. In 2004
management reported that “93 percent of the shares are now held by institutional investors,” 26% from
the United States, 24% from the United Kingdom, and 35% from Germany (DB Annual Report 2004).
TCI saw the opportunity to solicit the support of these owners.
2.2 France: Euronext (TCI)
TCI employed the same strategy again in 2006 at Euronext, this time putting pressure on the
exchange to merge with its rivals DB or the NYSE. On February 15, 2006, almost 76% of the voting
rights were controlled by international institutional shareholders. Euronext merged with the NYSE in
2007.
2.3 Japan: J-Power (TCI) and Aderans (Steel Partners)
TCI tried to employ similar tactics at J-Power in Japan starting in October 2006. Thirty-five
percent of J-Power’s shares were held by foreign institutional investors (Buchanan et al. 2012). TCI
nominated two outside directors: J-Power’s board refused to support them. In May 2008, the Japanese
government refused TCI’s request to raise its stake to 20%. TCI launched a proxy contest and
purchased positions in ten institutions that were shareholders of J-Power. In June 2008 a majority of
shareholders rejected TCI’s proposal. The engagement failed because TCI was unable to gain sufficient
support from other shareholders, including other activists. However, in contrast, in 2008 Steel Partners
12

were able to replace the board of Aderans because the fund held a 24.6% stake, and they had the
support of State Street Banks and Trust that held a 16.3% stake (Greenwood and Schor 2009).9
2.4 South Korea: KT&G (Carl Icahn and Steel Partners)
In South Korea, Carl Icahn engaged KT&G, the country’s largest tobacco and ginseng group, in
January 2006. He acquired a 6% stake and was supported by Steel Partners. KT&G was widely held
and 60% of its shareholders were foreigner investors. Carl Icahn managed to appoint a director and
KT&G accepted nearly all of Icahn’s demands. He sold his stake with a 44.2% net return at the end of
the year (Financial Times 2006; Kim 2008).
In the case studies considered above, the presence of (foreign) institutional investors is crucial
in determining the outcome. The general trend in institutional ownership between 2000 and 2007 in
many Asian and European markets is consistent with the case study evidence. The value of foreign
equity holdings of U.S. institutions increased more than threefold between 2001 and 2007 (Department
of the Treasury 2008). In 2005, U.S. institutional investors held 65% of the total US$18 trillion in
equity positions held by 5,300 institutions in 27 countries in the FactSet/Lionshare database (Aggarwal
et al. 2011, Table A3). The percentage of total market capitalization held by foreign institutions
exceeded 20% in 14 of these markets.10 At the company level, foreign holdings are even higher in
widely held companies, as illustrated by the case studies of Deutsche Börse and Euronext.
Finally, institutional and legal characteristics of a country may influence activism. Prior
research suggests that several dimensions of country characteristics might be important for hedge fund
activism. For example, the anti-director rights index in Djankov et al. (2008) has as one of its
components whether shareholders have the right to call a special meeting and propose candidates for

9 The 24.6% stake was just below Aderans’ 30% poison pill threshold.
10 A comparison of data on foreign holdings of U.S. institutions published by the U.S. Treasury shows holdings of U.S.

institutions that are even higher than those reported by Factset: Factset reports total foreign U.S. equity holdings of US$
2,001 billion in December 2005 (Ferreira and Matos (2008), Table A2), compared with US$ 3,318 billion for the same
month and year (Treasury International Capital Survey (2005), p. 3).

13

election to the board. Across countries, shareholders may require as little as 5% or as much as 20% to
exercise this right (the United States/Delaware being an exception, where shareholders generally
cannot call an EGM, but can launch a proxy fight). Differences in anti-director rights should therefore
affect the ease with which activists can engage. Other country characteristics that are likely to matter
are institutional ownership, board composition, governance quality, reporting regulations for
ownership, among others. We investigate the importance of these country characteristics, which
significantly vary, in our analysis below.
3. Results
In this section we describe four sets of our results. First, we report the probability of a firm
becoming a target of an activist in a given country, conditional on target characteristics. Second, we
calculate various metrics of performance of engagements, measuring the target’s abnormal returns
around the initial block disclosure by the activist, the probability of occurrence of different successful
outcomes during the engagement, the abnormal returns around the announcement of these outcomes,
and the long-term abnormal returns for the entire engagement period from entry of the activist to exit.
Third, we examine the influence of the nationality of the activist, domestic, foreign or foreign-U.S., on
the success of the engagements. Fourth, and finally, we examine how country specific characteristics
affect activism performance and outcomes.

3.1 Likelihood of engagement across countries
We investigate what factors affect the probability of an engagement by an activist hedge fund.
Table 4 reports probit regressions, where the dependent variable is a dummy indicating whether a firm
is engaged by an activist or not in a given year. We control for firm characteristics, such as size (market
14

cap), leverage and market to book, a firm’s accounting standards, index membership, illiquidity of
target firm shares and institutional ownership (domestic and foreign). Institutional ownership is
important since, as discussed earlier, we expect that institutional investors, particularly those from the
United States, increase the probability of an activist engagement. Index membership and illiquidity are
correlated with institutional ownership but might also have a direct effect on activists’ decision to
engage a target. We report results using two different samples: The “All countries” sample in Columns
1 and 2 covers 45 countries and 25,018 firms, including 22 countries without any recorded activist
events (from Column 2 onward, we require nonmissing data also for Illiquidity, reducing sample size).
The “Only activist markets” sample in Columns 3 and 4 is limited to markets with at least five
engagements during the sample period. All columns include year fixed effects, and Column 4
additionally includes country fixed effects.
The results in Table 4 confirm that institutional ownership is strongly correlated with the level
of engagements at the firm level within a country, particularly if the institutional investor is U.S.-based.
We thus confirm and extend prior evidence by Brav et al. (2008), who show that for U.S. domestic
engagements, institutional ownership increases the likelihood of activist engagements. When we
partition institutional ownership by domestic, foreign-U.S., and foreign non-U.S., two of the variables
(domestic and foreign-U.S.) are significant at the 1% level and foreign non-U.S. is significant in two
out of the three regressions at the 1% or 5% level. For all countries, foreign-U.S. ownership is almost
twice as important as domestic ownership; for countries with at least five engagements (Regressions 2
and 3), it is more important than foreign non-U.S. by a factor of between 2.5 and 4.5 times.
In a separate set of results reported in the Internet Appendix (Table 15), we interact institutional
ownership with indicator variables for the seven countries with the highest absolute number of activist
engagements, to test whether the role of institutional investors differs across markets. We find that
Germany, France, and the United Kingdom have similar characteristics—foreign institutional investors,
15

and particularly those from the United States, have a larger impact on engagement probabilities. Japan
is similar to these three countries insofar as foreign U.S. investors make activism more likely; in
contrast, domestic Japanese institutions have a dampening effect on shareholder activism. Italy is
similar to Japan, with less activism when domestic institutional holdings are higher and foreign (U.S.)
institutional holdings are lower.
Considering how firm characteristics relate to activist engagements, Table 4 yields two
additional insights. First, controlling for other factors, firm size has little effect on engagement
probability. While Brav et al. (2008) find that engagements are concentrated among smaller firms in
the United States from 2001 to 2006, this study finds that hedge fund activists around the world appears
to be less constrained by the size of market capitalization of the target firm. Second, broadly consistent
with Brav et al. (2008) and other prior U.S. findings, activists behave as value investors in their choice
of targets. Those targets have lower market-to-book, higher payout ratios, lower investment, and higher
cash balances.
3.2 Engagement announcement returns
The first measure of engagement performance is the cumulative abnormal return around the
initial disclosure of the activist engagement, measured across all jurisdictions. Table 5 reports the
market-model adjusted abnormal returns around the disclosure date for two event windows, 21 days
and 41 days (1,617 out of 1,740 engagement disclosures have sufficient data available; market models
are country specific). In panel A, for the aggregate sample, average abnormal returns are 6.4% for the
(-20, 20) window, and 6.1% for the (-10, 10) window, significantly different from zero at the 1%
level.11

11 We alternatively calculate simple market index adjusted returns. Returns in this case are, on average, 1.3 percentage

points lower and significant at the 1% level or better.

16

There is some variation across the three regions. For the (-20, 20) window in panel A, North
America has the highest disclosure returns at 7.0%, followed by Asia at 6.4% and Europe at 4.8%.
North American abnormal returns are virtually identical to those reported for the United States by Brav
et al. (2008) for the 2001-2006 period.12 As Figure 2 shows, there is some post-disclosure drift in
abnormal returns in all three regions. Also shown is high abnormal share turnover (calculated relative
to average turnover prior to the event window) around the activist engagement disclosure event; it
increases by more than 80% over normal turnover prior to the event period, which in part reflects the
stake purchases of the activist and, in some cases more than one activist.
Focusing on the time series of disclosure returns for the full sample and by region, panel B of
Table 5 shows they are on average higher in North America during the early 2000s than during the late
2000s (10.5% versus 5.8%, respectively), but in Europe the pattern is reversed. The years 2003 and
2004 in Asia stand out, with abnormal returns above 15%. These engagements include some of the
most high-profile ones initiated by Steel Partners and Murakami in Japan and Sovereign Asset
Management in South Korea.
Panel C compares disclosure returns of stand-alone engagements with those of wolf packs, that
is, multiple activists engaging the same target. The results show that disclosure returns for multiple
engagements are strikingly higher at 13.8% compared with stand-alone deals at 6.3% (-20, 20 event
window). While it is possible that joint voting power of the hedge funds may contribute to these high
returns through higher outcome probabilities, it is also plausible that wolf packs form in response to
highly profitable engagements.

12 Further, while Brav, Jiang, and Kim (2015) find that disclosure returns in U.S. targets are declining over time, and

Krishnan, Partnoy, and Thomas (2015) document larger disclosure returns in the United States from 2008 onward. The
Internet Appendix provides a summary of disclosure returns from prior single-country studies of the United States, France,
Germany, Italy, Japan, and the United Kingdom. See Brav, Jiang, and Kim (2010) and Denes, Karpoff, and McWilliams
(2016) for recent surveys of the activism literature.

17

We show below that these dramatically higher disclosure returns of wolf packs reflect much
higher probabilities of successful outcomes. First, however, we investigate whether the higher
disclosure returns of wolf packs are attributable to the larger stakes that they control: The aggregate
ownership stakes held by wolf packs are significantly larger than those of stand-alone activist
engagements. At the beginning of an engagement, stand-alone activists hold an 8.0% stake on average,
while wolf packs, in aggregate, own 13.4% (unreported in the table).
To investigate whether higher disclosure returns of wolf packs are attributable to these larger
stakes, in panel D of Table 5, we regress announcement returns on activist stakes and three alternative
wolf pack measures. The first, Wolf pack (1/0), is a dummy for an engagement that involves a wolf
pack (1) or does not (0). The second and third variables attempt to remove the correlation between wolf
packs and the size of their stakes. This helps separate the size of stake (more voting power) from a
potential coordination effect that would be directly observable if a group or concert party had been
notified. The second variable, Residual wolf pack (Start), is defined as the residual from a regression of
Wolf pack (1/0) on Stake held by activist (Start) as well as announcement year and country fixed
effects. The third variable is Residual wolf pack (High), which is the residual from the same regression
using instead the maximum stake during the engagement, Stake held by activist (High).
The results for both event windows and for all three measures of wolf pack status are consistent:
While activist stakes, as expected, have a positive effect on disclosure returns, the effect of wolf packs
is largely independent of the larger stakes they control. Controlling for activist stake size, wolf packs
for the (-20, 20) window continue to have between 6.4% and 7.0% larger disclosure returns than standalone engagements.
Finally, in panel E of Table 5, we analyze the performance of domestic and foreign activist
engagements. We compare the performance of U.S. activists at home against their performance
overseas, and against their foreign peers, who themselves engage both domestic and foreign targets.
18

We find that disclosure abnormal returns for domestic engagements are 7.0% during the (-20, 20) event
window for domestic engagements compared with 3.6% to 3.8% for foreign engagements. Again,
domestic engagements are similar for U.S. and non-U.S. activists. This suggests that domestic activism
may be more profitable than foreign activism if engagement costs are similar.
3.3 Outcome probabilities and disclosure returns around outcomes
Table 6 reports the total number of all successful outcomes, grouped by year during which the
outcome is announced. Outcomes are categorized as “Board” (replacement of the CEO, CFO,
Chairman, or Nonexecutive directors), “Payout” (share buybacks or increased/special dividends) and
corporate restructuring. We separate restructurings into “Takeover” (the target firm is acquired by a
strategic buyer or private equity fund), and “Restructuring” (divestitures and spin-offs of non-core
assets, and the blocking of diversifying acquisitions).13 These categories are based on the internal
classification of engagement outcomes by one of the largest hedge funds in our sample (see Becht et al.
2009). They are broader than those typically used in studies of domestic U.S. engagements (see, e.g.,
Brav, Jiang, and Kim 2009; Greenwood and Schor 2009), and necessitated by having to identify
outcomes consistently across many countries from non-standardized news reports.
The impact of the financial crisis on activist engagements is significant. First, the steady
increase in the global number of simultaneously ongoing engagements from 2000 onward peaks in
2007 and declines every year afterwards (in Asia the peak is in 2008). Second, the total number of
outcomes drops, in Asia from 17 in 2007 to 9 in 2008 and further to 5 in 2009, with similar declines in
Europe and North America. Third, since outcomes decline faster than the stock of engagements, the

13 We verify for all 1,740 engagements whether SDC reports takeover attempts by third parties on the respective target firm.

We identify 21 announcements of takeover outcomes in our sample (15 are in the United States), where a third party and not
the activist may be responsible for the subsequent takeover. When we alternatively drop these 21 outcomes from our
sample, our results and conclusions are materially unaltered.

19

probability of achieving successful outcomes per engagement declines after 2007. The decline is spread
unevenly across types of outcomes: the number of successful board outcomes continues to be relatively
high while the number of takeovers associated with the activist engagement sharply declines. In Asia,
where successful takeover outcomes are infrequent throughout the sample, there are no activist
successes after 2007. This is also related to two important activist failures, Steel Partner’s engagement
of Bull-Dog Sauce and TCI’s engagement of J-Power, that seriously undermined the prospects of
confrontational activism in Japan. We discuss these cases in the Internet Appendix. In Europe
successful takeover outcomes drop from 10% of all ongoing engagements in 2007 to 3% in 2008 and
do not recover, with similar numbers for North America.
Next, we examine the disclosure returns around outcome announcements. These returns were
already partly anticipated by the initial block disclosure returns. The abnormal returns around the
disclosure of activist engagements should reflect the probability and potential profitability of successful
outcomes from the engagement. If investors correctly assess the probability of engagement success on
average–ex ante, abnormal disclosure returns are higher for engagements with subsequent successful
outcomes than for engagements without any outcomes. This is exactly what we find with 7.9% block
disclosure returns for engagements with successful outcomes and 4.7% for engagements without
outcomes (for the (-20, 20) window); the difference is statistically significant at the 1% level.
We would expect engagements with observable outcomes to be associated with additional postdisclosure abnormal returns, and those engagements without outcomes to be associated with losses
post-disclosure. We therefore analyze the cumulative abnormal returns around the disclosure of
observable outcomes of engagements. Since we can only measure these returns for successful
engagements, we also provide below a comparison of the long-term performance of successful and
unsuccessful engagements.

20

Table 7 reports abnormal returns for all outcomes, again for (-10, 10) and (-20, 20) event
windows. Out of 1740 engagements, 880 have at least one subsequent outcome and of those 850 have
sufficient data to calculate abnormal returns. A significant number of engagements, 139 in total,
achieve multiple outcomes, for example a takeover preceded by a board change or another type of
restructuring. As well as reporting returns for engagements with multiple outcomes, we split them
further into outcomes that include a takeover of the target (“Multiple+Takeover,” 58 engagements), and
those which do not (“Multiple+NoTakeover,” 81 engagements).
In panel A, the average abnormal return for all announced outcomes for the 41-day window is
6.4% and is statistically significant at the 1% level. The largest abnormal returns are generated by
takeover transactions that also involve other outcomes, at 18.1%. An important feature of this table is
that engagements with multiple outcomes are on average significantly more profitable, that is, have
larger returns than single outcomes, regardless of the type of outcome. Takeovers involving other
outcomes are likely to be the most profitable because the activist has to remove an obstacle, for
example incumbent members of the board, which may have depressed the stock price. This evidence
qualifies the results by Greenwood and Schor (2009) who provide evidence that a large proportion of
activist returns are the result of “putting companies into play”; our evidence suggests that while
activists might be good at picking likely takeover candidates, their other actions might also influence
the probability of takeover, in particular since the other actions usually precedes the takeover bid. It
might be necessary, for example, to replace board members to make the activist target more amendable
to a partial or outright sale.
All other types of outcomes have smaller abnormal returns. Restructurings that are not
takeovers, including divestitures and spin-offs, average 5.6%. Payout is not distinguishable from zero
at -0.2%. Board changes generate abnormal returns at 4.5%. These results show that engagements,

21

conditional on successful outcomes, have much higher levels of returns than those shown at the
disclosure date.14
There are also interesting differences in outcomes returns across region, in panel B. In Asia,
there are very few engagements with outcomes and the outcome returns, except for two engagements
with multiple outcomes, are small and for the (-20,20) window all returns are insignificant. Such a low
probability of successful outcomes and the low associated returns suggest that the large abnormal
returns in Asia at disclosure proved optimistic.15 In Europe, outcomes are much more frequent and they
have the highest average abnormal returns across the three regions with 8.8% for the (-20,20) window.
Pure-play takeovers and takeovers involving other outcomes stand out with 10.8% and 25.1%,
respectively. Restructuring outcomes have returns of 5.3% and engagements with multiple outcomes
(but no takeover) have 10.3%.
In North America engagements have the highest probability of achieving outcomes, the average
abnormal return is 6.0% and, like in Europe, takeovers on their own and with other outcomes stand out
with the largest positive returns of 9.5% and 16.2%, respectively. These results are consistent with
those of Brav et al. (2008) and Greenwood and Schor (2009) for U.S. domestic engagements.

14 In additional tests, we find that the individual outcomes of multiple outcomes are valued similar to single outcomes. For

example, across all sample engagements, board changes generate roughly 4.5% abnormal returns, and restructurings
generate roughly 5.5%, while board change plus restructuring generates roughly 10%. Therefore, engagements that generate
multiple outcomes are more valuable not through making each outcome more valuable, but through generating more
outcomes.
15 Japan is a special case. Ownership structures are prima facie conducive to activism; the average Japanese firm is widely
held and foreign ownership has increased over the sample period. More importantly a former civil servant, Murakami
Yoshiaki and various vehicles set up by him, loosely referred to as “Murakami Fund,” achieved a number of early successes
employing confrontational activist tactics. Following this, several foreign activist funds entered the Japanese market: Dalton
in 2001, Steel Partners in 2002, TCI in 2005, Ichigo in 2006, and Perry in 2007. Steel Partners and TCI adopted a
confrontational style, and Steel Partners had some early success. However, the well-documented 2007 Bull-Dog Sauce and
2006-2008 J-Power cases cast doubt on whether confrontational activism can work in Japan. Some activists argue that
changing attitudes among Japanese institutional investors and increasing foreign holdings can lead to successful and very
profitable hostile engagements. An alternative type of private dialog-based activism is taking hold: Buchanan, Chai, and
Deakin (2013) report the arrival of “quiet activism” in Japan and private discussions we have had with a U.K. hedge fund,
Governance for Owners (GO), match this account. GO set up a joint venture with Japanese investors with the explicit
objective to engage in private. These are developments that post-date the end of our sample period. To investigate this “new
form” of activism in Japan will require data on private activism like the data that Becht et al. (2009) obtained for the
Hermes UK Focus Fund and which is currently not available to us.

22

Restructuring outcomes and engagements with multiple outcomes (but no takeover) have returns that
are comparable to Europe. Overall, the stock market responses to observable outcomes are similar for
North America and Europe.
Panel C examines further those 58 engagements with multiple outcomes that involve a takeover
(Multiple+Takeover). If governance changes facilitate eventual takeovers, one would expect the
announcement of other outcomes to precede the announcement of takeover outcomes during an
engagement, and the results confirm this to be the case. Engagements with multiple outcomes last 806
days on average, and takeover outcomes are announced significantly later than all other types of
outcomes. Board change announcements instead precede them and are announced about one-third into
the average life of such engagements; payout changes and restructurings are announced roughly at halftime; and takeover outcomes are announced about three quarters into the engagement period.16
Next, we compare outcome probabilities and announcement returns between engagements for
wolf packs and single activists. In this comparison, we treat the wolf pack as a single engagement and
consider any achieved outcome only once, thus avoiding double counting. As panel D shows, the
higher disclosure announcement returns for multiple engagements coincide with a much higher
incidence of outcomes achieved for these deals: The probability of achieving at least one outcome is
46% for stand-alone engagements, while it is 78% for multiple activist engagements. The higher
probability of achieving outcomes is mostly reflected in board changes, but all categories of possible
outcomes are higher for multiple engagements than for stand-alone activists. In addition, the proportion
of the most profitable outcomes (takeovers and restructurings) is a higher proportion of total outcomes
than in the case of stand-alone engagements (40% versus 30%). Note that the abnormal returns around
successful outcomes are not higher for wolf packs than for stand-alone engagements; wolf packs

16 Takeover outcomes refer to the announcement of the takeover, not its completion, so it is possible that there are

additional outcomes following takeover announcements.

23

therefore have higher probabilities of outcomes, but not higher return upon outcome announcement.
Overall, wolf packs have higher announcement returns on disclosure of a stake (compared with standalone activists), higher probabilities of achieving the outcomes they seek, and achieve more of the most
profitable types of outcomes, that is, takeovers and restructurings.17
Finally, given our observation that U.S. institutional investors are an important influence on the
level of activism in non-U.S. countries, it is reasonable to ask whether U.S.-style activism explains
activism performance. We know that U.S. hedge fund activists successfully cooperate with U.S.
institutional investors in the United States. We investigate whether this cooperation explains successful
engagements in other countries.
We first compare the performance of U.S. activists at home against their performance overseas,
and against their foreign peers, who themselves engage both domestic and foreign targets. Table 7,
panel E, reports engagement performance partitioned by the four categories of activist-target pairings.
Among activists across all countries, U.S. activists targeting domestic firms have significantly higher
probabilities of achieving an outcome, which is not surprising given our earlier results on outcomes in
the United States. However, this advantage is not one of U.S.-style activism per se, as it does not carry
over to U.S. activists targeting firms abroad, who are not different in their success rates from other
foreign activists. While domestic activism (outside the United States) has higher disclosure returns than
foreign activism, it does not have a higher probability of outcomes. Therefore, the superior
performance of U.S. domestic activism seems to be related to its ability to generate more outcomes.
We now turn to the degree to which hedge funds specialize in their choice of geography of
target. In Figure 3, we provide a histogram of the proportion of funds’ engagements that are foreign,

17 We order activists by entry time for the same target and find (-20, 20) disclosure returns of 7.8% (t-statistic 5.82) for the

first activist, 4.9% (t-statistic 3.10) for the second activist, and 7.1% for the third activist (t-statistic 1.50). Subsequent
disclosures to the first activist therefore still generate large abnormal returns. While this evidence is consistent with
sequential learning through activist entry, it may also be that multiple engagements increase the probability of outcomes and
thereby increase the profitability of the engagement.

24

based upon a subsample of funds with at least ten engagements. As the distribution shows, the vast
majority of funds specialize in engaging only firms in their respective domestic home markets. A
minority of funds engages in foreign markets, among which a significant proportion exclusively engage
in foreign markets. Few funds engage both domestic and foreign targets. The degree of specialization is
even more pronounced—with relatively more funds investing only either in domestic or foreign
engagements—when we consider all 330 funds in the sample (data not shown).
To better understand this specialization of funds, we consider the engagement performance of
the subsample of U.S. hedge funds which invest in targets both domestically and overseas. This
provides evidence about the extent to which the success of a domestic engagement model can translate
into successful foreign engagements. There are 24 hedge funds in our sample which engage with both
domestic and foreign targets, out of a sample of 261 U.S. hedge funds. These include some of the
largest funds in the sample by number of engagements, Steel Partners, ValueAct Capital Partners, Carl
Icahn, and Third Point. We compare, for each such fund, the probability of achieving outcomes in
foreign engagements to the probability of achieving outcomes in domestic engagements. We find a
strong negative correlation between both probabilities for the sample of 24 hedge funds, suggesting that
success domestically does not translate into success overseas, and vice versa.18

3.4 Total engagement returns
To obtain measures of the overall performance of an engagement we measure the returns of
activist engagements over the holding period of the activist. This enables us to compare the profitability
of engagements with and without observable outcomes.
We construct activist portfolio returns in calendar time. The portfolios are rebalanced each
month to include all firms in the month that are subject to an ongoing activist engagement. Equal- and
18 Figure A4 in the Internet Appendix shows a plot of these 24 funds.

25

value-weighted portfolio raw returns are in the Internet Appendix. The portfolios’ excess returns are
regressed on the excess return of the market and the four-factor Fama and French (1993) and Carhart
(1997) mimicking portfolios. To illustrate for the four-factor model, we regress

Rp,t  Rf ,t  P  P,RMRF (Rm,t  Rf ,t )  P,SMB SMBt  P,HML HMLt  P,MOM MOMt   P,t ,
where RMRF, SMB, HML, and MOM are the excess return of the market, the difference between a
portfolio of small stocks and big stocks, the difference between a portfolio of high book-to-market and
low book-to-market stocks, and the difference between a portfolio of high and low momentum stocks,
respectively, all based on U.S. stocks. We also estimate specifications where the excess returns of the
activist portfolio are regressed on excess returns of a region’s market, where the regional market excess
returns are weighted averages of the sample countries in that region, net of the U.S. risk-free rate.
Alpha or αP, is the estimate of monthly abnormal performance of the target portfolio. 19
In Table 8, panel A, reports equal-weighted and value-weighted results for annualized Alpha for
engagements with at least one outcome, for engagements without any outcome, for the long/short
portfolio that holds the portfolio of engagements with outcomes and sells short the portfolio of
engagement with no outcomes, and for all engagements combined. The long/short portfolio serves to
illustrate the magnitude of return differentials between successful and unsuccessful engagements, but
ex ante does not represent an investable strategy.20

19 For delisted firms, returns are used until the last month before delisting. For each portfolio, we require a minimum of five

firm returns in each month and replace monthly portfolio returns with fewer than five firms with the excess return of the
market (replacement biases our results against finding abnormal performance; depending on the portfolio, replacement is for
39 or 49 months for Asia, 5 or 10 months for Europe, and 4 or 5 months for North America). Factor portfolios in all
regressions are based on U.S. stocks. We also estimate MktModel specifications in which excess returns of the activist
portfolio are regressed on region-specific excess returns of the market (based on weighted averages of country stock market
indices of all sample countries in each region). Results are similar, omitted for brevity, and available on request.
20 We alternatively report results calculated over one-, two-, and three-year fixed intervals in Table A17 in the Internet
Appendix. For example, the results for the Carhart four-factor model show that the abnormal return is roughly equally
spread across the first three years of an engagement.

26

With equal-weighting, activist engagements with successful outcomes produce annualized
positive abnormal returns of 8.4% (MktModel) and 1.1% (Carhart) for the entire sample, while
engagements with no outcomes have abnormal returns of -5.5% (MktModel) and -9.8% (Carhart) and
thus underperform similarly risky stocks. The long/short portfolio’s return is 13.9% and 10.9%,
respectively, significant at the 1% level. The overall performance of activism for the pooled sample is
not significantly different from zero, in line with prior U.S. evidence. We find similar results when we
split portfolios by region. Significance levels remain high, as deals with outcomes continue to generate
positive abnormal returns in all regions, while deals without outcomes generate zero or negative
abnormal returns. Value-weighted abnormal returns increase overall, to 11.3% and 8.0%; statistically
significant at the 1% and 5% level for engagements with successful outcomes. For engagements
without outcomes, abnormal returns are 4.0% and 2.3%, neither of which are significant. The main
conclusion is that the difference in performance between outcomes and no outcomes is always
economically large and frequently statistically significant.
Larger target engagements even with no outcomes on average exhibit positive performance,
which leads to the long/short portfolio return being insignificant in the value-weighted specifications.
We investigate this latter finding in more detail, particularly in light of prior U.S. evidence in which
equal-weighted returns consistently outperform the value-weighted returns. Specifically, we investigate
whether this is a recent phenomenon, as hedge funds in recent year have engaged some of the largest
firms worldwide. Consistent with this, during our sample period average market capitalization of
targeted firms increases from US$ 600 million in 2000 to US$ 3.4 billion in 2010. In unreported results
(available on request), we split our sample into alternative sub-periods; first, using two equal time
periods (January 2000-June 2005, July 2005-December 2010), and second using a structural break
(October 2008) in the time series for Asia and Europe identified from Chow tests into pre- and postbreak periods (January 2000-September 2008, October 2008-December 2010). For the entire sample
27

we obtain two results, robust to as to how we split the time periods: First, the activist portfolio returns,
both equal- and value-weighted decline over time. Second, relative to small engagements, the
performance of large engagements improves over time. The outperformance of large engagements
therefore appears to be a recent development.21
To generate insights into what drives the abnormal performance during the activist
engagements, in panel B we decompose the returns over the engagement period into three portfolios: a
portfolio containing only the disclosure months, that is, “Only months t=0”; a portfolio containing only
months during which outcome announcements are made, that is, “Only months with outcome
announcements”; and a portfolio that contains all other months, that is, “All other months.” There are
two main results. First, engagements have significantly positive alphas both in the month of initial
disclosure of the activist stake and in those months where successful outcomes are announced. While
these are not investable strategies for outsiders, the annualized alphas from these portfolios are
significant and range from 14.2% to 18.9% for the “Only months t=0” portfolio and from 26.4 to
28.2% for the “Only months with outcome announcements” portfolio. Second, in months after the block
disclosure and excluding the outcome disclosure month(s), there are no significant abnormal returns
generated by the activist, positive or negative.
Overall, the results confirm that activist engagements without outcomes generally do not
generate significant shareholder value under any specification. Engagements with outcomes however
generate value for shareholders, with value generation being closely linked to these outcomes. It is
unlikely that this consistent pattern across regions is a coincidence. These results suggest that activism
is frequently not just about stock picking but also changing the governance of a company.

21 We also find that the relative performance improvements in large engagements over time are most pronounced in those

engagements without observable outcomes. Our data do not allow us to test why activist engagements without observable
outcomes generate (relatively) superior performance. One conjecture is that activists, particularly in large firms,
increasingly may be able to change how investors perceive firm value via outcomes that are more subtle and harder to
measure than those specified by us.

28

3.5 Country differences in activism
Our evidence so far indicates that shareholder activism is successful in generating positive
returns for target shareholders across countries. There are common themes: Activists are more likely to
engage targets that have foreign institutional investors, in particular from the United States; activists
generate positive abnormal returns if and only if they manage to achieve successful outcomes; and the
value of achieving an outcome depends significantly on the exact nature of the change implemented by
the activist.
Finally, we consider whether country-level measures of economic development, the legal
system and governance affect activist engagements and their success, and also consider the impact of
institutional ownership. In Table 9 we report three sets of tests. First, in Columns 1 to 3, the dependent
variable is the disclosure abnormal return. We control for firm-level characteristics as in Table 4, and
for year fixed effects (entry year). Since we require firms to have coverage on FactSet for these
regressions, our sample reduces to roughly 900 observations. As the results show, none of the countrylevel measures are statistically significant, and also institutional ownership is insignificant. Disclosure
returns therefore neither depend on country characteristics nor on the cross-sectional differences of
institutional holdings. The lack of significance is not too surprising, since disclosure abnormal returns
are conditional on the activist choosing to go ahead with an engagement. For example, since activists
will have considered institutional ownership in picking targets, targets should have conditionally
optimal institutional ownership; ownership would then appear unrelated to announcement returns.
Second, in Columns 4 to 6, the dependent variable is the abnormal return in response to the
disclosure of successful outcomes. For engagements without successful outcomes we assume an
abnormal return of zero (alternatively excluding all observations with no outcomes does not change the
results). These regressions are very similar in the sense that neither institutional ownership nor countrylevel characteristics have meaningful explanatory power for whether hedge fund activists generate
29

successful outcomes. However, we do find that institutional ownership has a significant correlation
with the number of outcomes achieved in an engagement (results are shown in Table 18 in the Internet
Appendix); specifically, the total number of outcomes increases with ownership by domestic and
foreign U.S. institutions. When we further test which outcome types are related, we find that board
outcomes increase significantly with domestic and foreign U.S. ownership, restructurings increase with
domestic ownership, but other outcome types do not increase, and foreign non-U.S. ownership even
appears to have a negative relation to restructurings.22
Third, in the remaining six columns, the dependent variable is a measure of whether a firm is
engaged by an activist or not (we have shown regressions with this dependent variable in Table 4). We
show a firm-level version of the regression where the dependent variable is a dummy for a firm
engaged by an activist in year t (1) or not engaged (0) in Columns 7 to 9, and we show a country-level
version where the dependent variable is the percentage of firms being engaged by activists, for a given
country in a given year, in Columns 10 to 12. For Columns 10 to 12, we use the aggregated sample
from Columns 7 to 9; that is, all firm-level variables are averaged for each country-year. Since the
dependent variable is a fraction, we estimate Columns 10 to 12 by GLM following Papke and
Wooldridge (1996). The results show that activists are more likely to target firms in countries where
the rule of law is strong; consistent with this, activism is rare in emerging markets. Further, activism is
more frequent in those developed countries (e.g., France, Germany, and Italy) in which minimum
regulatory disclosure thresholds for blockholders are low, the legal system is different from Common
Law, and governance is relatively weak. The coefficients for investor protection and board structure are
ambiguous, with sign changes.23

22 See also Appel, Gormley, and Keim (2016), who find that a larger share held by passive institutional investors in the

United States is related to a higher likelihood of (U.S.) activists achieving board outcomes.
23 Weak governance and independent boards are not necessarily inconsistent. For example, Italy requires that companies
with block holders appoint special board members that represent minority shareholders.

30

Our interpretation of these results is that while in absolute numbers activism is most prevalent
in the United States and the United Kingdom (Common Law countries), relative to the number of listed
companies it is most prominent in developed countries with Non-Common Law legal systems,
accompanied by weaker governance. It may be that such targets provide greater potential for
improvement from an activist point of view. Moreover, as our case studies on France and Germany
illustrate, activists in those countries target companies with relatively dispersed ownership, where
blocks are largely absent and that are more susceptible to the votes of foreign institutional shareholders.
In summary, country characteristics matter for the decision of activists to engage a target, and
for whether an outcome is achieved. However, conditional on observing an engagement, country
characteristics do not correlate with measures of financial performance, such as initial disclosure
returns and outcome disclosure returns.
4. Conclusion
Our paper provides large-sample evidence about the incidence and performance of international
hedge fund activism. The average share stake held by activists is 11% across countries. As a
consequence, activists must seek the support of other institutional shareholders or engage alongside
other activists. Success of the activist business model appears to crucially depend on the activist
achieving outcomes. We show that engagements with outcomes exhibit positive and significant
abnormal performance for the entire engagement period, while activist engagements without outcomes
do not; the differences are economically large and usually statistically significant. The most profitable
outcomes are takeovers that are often preceded by governance changes, such as board restructurings.
They signal that the outcome is a consequence of action taken by the activist and may not occur
without engagement.

31

Institutional investors are related to the incidence of activism across countries. However,
foreign institutions, particularly those that originate in the United States, play a more important role
than domestic institutional investors in activism. The increase and spread of U.S. foreign institutional
holdings has significantly contributed to hedge fund activism becoming a global phenomenon.

32

References
Aggarwal, R., I. Erel, M. Ferreira, and P. Matos. 2011. Does governance travel around the world?
Evidence from institutional investors. Journal of Financial Economics 100:154–81.
Aggarwal, R., I. Erel, R. Stulz, and R. Williamson. 2009. Differences in governance practices between
U.S. and foreign firms: Measurement, causes, and consequences. Review of Financial Studies
22:3131–69.
Appel, I., T. A. Gormley, and D. B. Keim. 2016. Standing on the shoulders of giants: The effect of
passive investors on activism. Working Paper.
Bebchuk, L. A., A. Brav, and W. Jiang. 2014. The long-term effects of hedge fund activism. Columbia
Law Review 114:13–66.
Becht, M., J. Franks, and J. Grant. 2014. Hedge fund activism in Europe: Does privacy matter? In
Handbook in shareholder power. Eds. J. Hill and R. Thomas. Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar
Publishing.
Becht, M., J. Franks, Mayer, C., and S. Rossi. 2009. Returns to shareholder activism: Evidence from a
clinical study of the Hermes UK Focus Fund. Review of Financial Studies 22:3093–129.
Belcredi, M., and L. Enriques. 2014. Institutional investor activism in a context of concentrated
ownership and high private benefits of control: The case of Italy. ECGI Law Working Paper no.
225/2013.
Bessler, W., W. Drobetz, and J. Holler. 2015. The returns to hedge fund activism in Germany.
European Financial Management 21:106–47.
Bessière, V., M. Kaestner, and A.-L. Lafont. 2011. Hedge fund activism: Insights from a French
clinical study. Applied Financial Economics 21:1225–34.
Black, B. S., and J. C. Coffee. 1994. Hail Britannia?: Institutional investor behavior under limited
regulation. Michigan Law Review 92:1997–2087.
Boyson, N. M., and R. M. Mooradian. 2011. Corporate governance and hedge fund activism. Review of
Derivatives Research 14:169–204.

33

Brav, A., A. Dasgupta, and R. D. Mathews. 2016. Wolf pack activism. Robert H. Smith School
Research Paper No.
Brav, A., W. Jiang, and H. Kim. 2010. Hedge fund activism: A review. Foundations and Trends in
Finance 4:185–246.
———. 2015. The real effects of hedge fund activism: Productivity, asset allocation and identification.
Review of Financial Studies 28:2723–69.
Brav, A., W. Jiang, S. Ma, and X. Tian. 2014. Shareholder power and corporate innovation: Evidence
from hedge fund activism. Working Paper.
Brav, A., W. Jiang, F. Partnoy, and R. Thomas. 2008. Hedge fund activism, corporate governance, and
firm performance. Journal of Finance 63:1729–75.
Buchanan, B. G., D. H. Chai, and S. Deakin. 2013. Hedge fund activism in Japan: The limits of
shareholder primacy. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Buchanan, B. G., J. M. Netter, A. B. Poulsen, and T. Yang. 2012. Shareholder proposal rules and
practice: Evidence from a comparison of the United States and United Kingdom. American
Business Law Journal 49:739–803.
Carhart, M. M. 1997. On persistence in mutual fund performance. Journal of Finance 52:57–82.
Croci, E., and G. Petrella. 2013. Price changes around hedge fund trades: Disentangling trading and
disclosure effects. Journal of Management & Governance 19:25–46.
Clifford, C. P. 2008. Value creation or destruction? Hedge funds as shareholder activists. Journal of
Corporate Finance 14:323–36.
Coffee, J. C., Jr., and D. Palia. 2016. The wolf at the door: The impact of hedge fund activism on
corporate governance. Annals of Corporate Governance 1:1–94.
Department of the Treasury. 2008. Report on U.S. portfolio holdings of foreign securities as of
December 31, 2007. Washington DC.
Denes, M., J. M. Karpoff, and V. McWilliams. 2016. Thirty years of shareholder activism: A survey of
empirical research. Working Paper.
Djankov, S., R. La Porta, F. Lopez-de-Silanes, and A. Shleifer. 2008. The law and economics of selfdealing. Journal of Financial Economics 88:430–65.
34

European Commission. 2012. Application of Directive 2004/25/EC on takeover bids. Report from the
Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social
Committee and the Committee of Regions. COM(2012) 347 final.
Fama, E. F., and K. R. French. 1993. Common risk factors in the returns on stocks and bonds. Journal
of Financial Economics 33:3–56.
Ferreira, M. A., M. Massa, and P. Matos. 2010. Shareholders at the gate? Institutional investors and
cross-border mergers and acquisitions. Review of Financial Studies 23:601–44.
Ferreira, M. A., and P. Matos. 2008. The colors of investors’ money: The role of institutional investors
around the world. Journal of Financial Economics 88:499–533.
Financial Times. 2006. Icahn brings investor activism to S Korea. January 17, 2006.
Foley, F. C., R. Greenwood, and J. Quinn 2008. NEC Electronics. Harvard Business School Case 209001.
Gantchev, N. 2013. The costs of shareholder activism: Evidence from a sequential decision model.
Journal of Financial Economics 107:610–31.
Gillan, S. L., and L. T. Starks. 2003. Corporate governance, corporate ownership, and the role of
institutional investors: A Global perspective. Journal of Applied Finance 13:4–22.
———. 2007. The evolution of shareholder activism in the United States. Journal of Applied
Corporate Finance 19:55–73.
Greenwood, R., and M. Schor. 2009. Investor activism and takeovers. Journal of Financial Economics
92:362–75.
Greenwood, R., R. Khurana, and M. Egawa. 2009. Aderans. Harvard Business School Case 209-090,
March 2009.
Hamao, Y., K. Kutsuna, and P. Matos, 2011. Investor activism in Japan: The first 10 years. Working
Paper, University of Southern California.
Harrington, F. H., and C. S. Asa. 2010. Wolf communication, Chapter 3. In Wolves: Behavior, ecology,
and Conservation. Eds. L. D. Mech and L. Boitani. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Kahan, M., and E. B. Rock. 2007. Hedge funds in corporate governance and corporate
control. University of Pennsylvania Law Review 155:1021–93.
35

Kim, H.-J. 2008. Case for market and corporate control in Korea. Journal of Korean Law 8:227–76.
Klein, A., and E. Zur. 2008. Entrepreneurial shareholder activism: Hedge funds and other private
investors. Journal of Finance 64:187–229.
Leuz, C., K. V. Lins, and F. E. Warnock. 2009. Do foreigners invest less in poorly governed firms?
Review of Financial Studies 23:3245–85.
Milhaupt, C. J. 2005. In the shadow of Delaware? The rise of hostile takeovers in Japan. Columbia Law
Review 105:2171–2216.
———. 2009. Bull-Dog sauce for the Japanese soul - courts, corporations and communities - A
comment on Haley’s view of Japanese law. Washington University Global Studies Law Review
8:345–61.
Papke, L. E., and J. M. Wooldridge. 1996. Econometric methods for fractional response variables with
an application to 401(k) plan participation rates. Journal of Applied Econometrics 11:619–32.
van Tartwijk, M. 2010. Dutch court quashes probe into ASMI board policy. Dow Jones News,
September 2010.

36

Figure 1
Activist engagement time line

37

Figure 2
Cumulative abnormal returns around disclosure of activist engagements

0

Left: Abnormal share turnover (in percent)
20
40
60
80
100

0
2
4
6
Right: Avg cumulative abnormal return (in percent)

The dotted line (right axis) shows average cumulative abnormal returns around the initial filing date or the first press
disclosure date of engagements, market model adjusted. The event window is (-20, +20) days, where day zero corresponds to
the filing or press disclosure date. Factor loadings are estimated over 250 trading days preceding the event window, using
country-specific domestic market returns, with a minimum of 150 daily observations (1,617 out of 1,740 sample deals have
sufficient data). The bars (left axis) show abnormal trading activity in the target’s equity during the event window, where
trading activity is abnormal share turnover calculated relative to average turnover during 250 trading days preceding the
event window. Abnormal returns and abnormal trading activity are winsorized at the 1st and 99th percentiles.

-20

-10

0

10

20

Event days relative to disclosure date

Europe

0

2

4

6

0 20 40 60 80 100

8

Asia

-20

-10

0

10

8

North America

0

2

4

6

0 20 40 60 80 100

Right: Average cumulative abnormal return (in percent)

Right: Avg cumulative abnormal return (in percent)
Left: Abnormal share turnover (in percent)

-20

-10

0

10

20

Event days relative to disclosure date

Right: Average cumulative abnormal return (in percent)
Left: Abnormal share turnover (in percent)

38

20

Figure 3
Foreign engagements per fund

0

Fraction of funds
.2
.4

.6

Subsample of 61 funds with minimum 10 engagements

0

.2

.4
.6
.8
Percentage of foreign engagements per fund

39

1

Table 1
Hedge fund activism across countries
This table describes the number of engagements by a hedge fund between 2000 and 2010, the fraction of such engagements that involved a wolf pack
(two or more hedge fund activists engaging the same target), the fraction of engagements that involve a foreign activist, the fraction of engagements
that involve a U.S.-based foreign activist, the maximum stake held by the activists during the engagement period, and the country-specific regulatory
ownership disclosure threshold. For a subsample of engagements with coverage on FactSet (FS) in the engagement year (n = 958 engagements) the
table reports market capitalization of the target and institutional investor shareholdings, as well as market capitalization and institutional
shareholdings for the population of firms on FS. Reported numbers are averages, except where indicated.
Country Number of Fraction Fraction Fraction Fraction of RegulaSubsample of
FS firm population
engage- wolfforeign U.S.
shares held tory
engagements with FS
ments
packs” activists foreign by hedge disclosure
coverage
activist fund
threshold Market cap Fraction
Market Fraction Fraction Fraction
activist(s)
US$
held by inst. cap US$ held by
held by
held by
(median) inv.
(median) inst. inv., inst. inv., inst. inv.,
(median)
25th pctile 50th pctile 75th pctile
Region: Asia
Hong Kong
7
0.00
1.00
0.14
0.11
0.05
4,290
0.12
252
0.01
0.04
0.12
Israel
1
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.10
0.05
–
–
121
0.01
0.03
0.12
Japan
184
0.10
0.73
0.42
0.13
0.05
360
0.07
241
0.01
0.04
0.09
South Korea
23
0.09
0.22
0.17
0.10
0.05
256
0.04
158
0.00
0.03
0.09
Region: Europe
Austria
Belgium
Denmark
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Ireland
Italy
Luxembourg
Netherlands
Norway
Portugal
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
U.K.

1
9
1
3
27
53
3
2
42
5
22
7
1
5
15
19
165

0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.22
0.32
0.00
0.00
0.19
0.00
0.27
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.27
0.11
0.12

1.00
0.44
1.00
1.00
0.78
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.86
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
0.60
0.68
0.38

1.00
0.33
0.00
0.00
0.56
0.53
0.00
0.50
0.48
0.20
0.32
0.29
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.26
0.23

0.05
0.07
0.05
0.08
0.11
0.08
0.08
0.05
0.05
0.03
0.10
0.11
0.01
0.05
0.08
0.14
0.13

0.05
0.05
0.05
0.05
0.05
0.03
0.05
0.05
0.02
0.05
0.05
0.05
0.05
0.05
0.05
0.03
0.03

–
3,105
1,092
147
4,548
2,089
14,961
2,090
2,533
26,294
1134
738
8,878
165
1,407
775
278

–
0.23
0.28
0.53
0.32
0.22
0.22
0.48
0.13
0.12
0.33
0.35
0.10
0.11
0.36
0.30
0.27

330
221
193
197
173
149
200
187
373
506
615
188
389
929
146
475
97

0.02
0.02
0.03
0.06
0.02
0.02
0.00
0.09
0.02
0.01
0.10
0.06
0.02
0.02
0.06
0.03
0.09

0.08
0.06
0.14
0.18
0.07
0.08
0.01
0.19
0.06
0.10
0.22
0.14
0.06
0.08
0.17
0.13
0.20

0.16
0.14
0.23
0.29
0.16
0.20
0.08
0.32
0.14
0.26
0.39
0.26
0.12
0.16
0.33
0.26
0.32

Region: North America
Canada
20
U.S.
1,125

0.00
0.26

0.75
0.01

0.70
0.00

0.16
0.11

0.10
0.05

2,475
359

0.41
0.77

87
203

0.05
0.11

0.13
0.43

0.30
0.78

Asia
Europe
N. America
Total

0.09
0.17
0.26
0.22

0.68
0.66
0.02
0.24

0.39
0.32
0.01
0.13

0.12
0.10
0.11
0.11

–
–
–
–

360
1,411
370
423

0.07
0.24
0.77
0.56

224
180
181
201

0.01
0.04
0.09
0.02

0.04
0.12
0.35
0.10

0.09
0.25
0.74
0.32

214
381
1,145
1,740

40

Table 2
Activist engagements relative to market size and takeovers
The table compares the incidence of activist engagements and unsolicited takeover offers across regions and countries.
Unsolicited takeover offers are from SDC Platinum and include all listed targets with market capitalization of at least $10
million. The number of (domestic) listed firms is from the World Bank. Countries are sorted in declining order by “Activist
engagements per 1,000 listed firms.”
Activist
Total number of
Unsolicited
Activist
engagements per
Unsolicited bids
Region/Country
activist
bids per 1,000
engagements
1,000 listed
per year (avg)
engagements
listed firms
per year (avg)
firms
Region
Asia
214
3.2
0.5
19.5
2.8
Europe
381
3.4
2.1
34.6
20.5
North America
1,145
11.7
4.6
104.1
40.1
Countries with at least five activist engagements during sample period
U.S.
1,125
19.6
Italy
42
13.3
Luxembourg
5
12.4
Netherlands
22
11.6
Germany
53
7.3
Switzerland
19
6.6
U.K.
165
6
Japan
184
4.9
Sweden
15
4.8
Belgium
9
4.6
Norway
7
3.6
France
27
3
South Korea
23
1.2
Hong Kong
7
0.6
Canada
20
0.6
Spain
5
0.2

41

5.8
1.6
5.3
7.4
1.1
4.9
4.1
0.7
4
1.2
4.8
1.2
0.1
0.2
3.3
0.6

102.3
3.8
0.5
2
4.8
1.7
15
16.7
1.4
0.8
0.6
2.5
2.1
0.6
1.8
0.5

31.4
0.5
0.2
1.2
0.7
1.3
9.9
2.5
1.2
0.3
0.9
1
0.2
0.2
8.7
1.5

Table 3
Activist engagements by year, country and fund group
The table shows descriptive statistics for all 1,740 activist engagements between January 1, 2000 and December 31, 2010. In
panel A, wolf pack indicates an engagement of multiple activists with the same target. Panel B tabulates the country of origin
of both activists and targets.
Stand-alone activist
Wolf pack
Total
If wolf pack
2 hedge funds involved
3 or more hedge funds involved
Total

Type

A. Wolf pack engagements
Engagements
Percentage
1,362
78.3
378
21.7
1,740
100.0
290
88
378

76.7
23.3
100.0

1,115

Foreign non-U.S. engagements: Country of origin of the hedge fund
U.K.
109
Singapore
36
Switzerland
15
Sweden
8
Monaco
8
All other countries
26
Total non-U.S. activists
202
U.S. activists abroad
Total

Percentage
88.2
11.8
100.0

142
28
170

83.5
16.5
100.0

B. Domestic and foreign engagements by activist origin
Number of engagements

Domestic non-U.S. engagements: Country of origin of the hedge fund
U.K.
102
Japan
50
South Korea
18
France
6
Switzerland
6
Sweden
6
Italy
6
All other countries
10
Total non-U.S. activists
204
U.S. activists at home

Target firms
1,315
172
1,534

219
1,740

Percentage

Domestic non-U.S. engagements

11.7

Domestic U.S. engagements

64.1

Foreign non-U.S. engagements

11.6

Foreign U.S. engagements

12.6
100

42

Table 4
Probability of activist engagements
The table provides the results of probit regressions in which the dependent variable is whether a firm is engaged by an activist
(1) or not (0) in a given year. All nonbinary coefficients are reported as marginal effects. The “All countries” sample includes
all firms from the FactSet database from 2000 to 2010 with nonmissing data (45 countries, 25,018 firms, 114,978 firm-years;
of these, 90,470 firm-years have nonmissing data also for Illiquidity). The “Only activist markets” sample includes only
countries in which we observe at least five engagements during the sample period (13 countries, 13,479 firms, 68,157 firmyears). The main independent variables are institutional ownership by domestic institutions (IO_Domestic), foreign U.S.based institutions (IO_Foreign U.S.), and foreign non-U.S.-based institutions (IO_Foreign Non-U.S.); firm size (log of
market capitalization); Market-to-book (total assets minus book value of equity plus market value of equity over total assets);
Profitability (EBITDA over total assets); Leverage (Total debt over total assets); Cash (cash and cash equivalents over total
assets); Dividend yield (Common cash dividends over book equity); Payout (Dividend payout per share); Investment (Capex
over total assets); U.S. GAAP (whether (1) or not (0) a firm uses U.S. accounting standards); Index member (whether (1) or
not (0) a firm belongs to one of 48 major domestic stock market indices); and Illiquidity (number of zero daily returns per
year divided by the number of available daily returns per year, minimum of 200 available daily returns per year). All
continuous variables are winsorized at the 1st and 99th percentiles. White (1980) heteroscedasticity-robust standard errors are
reported in brackets. ***, **, and * indicate significance at the 1%, 5%, and 10% level, respectively.
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Sample
All countries
All countries
Only activist markets Only activist markets
IO_domestic
IO_foreign U.S.
IO_foreign non-U.S.
Ln(Market cap)
Market-to-book
Profitability
Leverage
Cash
Div yield
Payout
Investment
U.S. GAAP
Index member

0.037***
[0.002]
0.063***
[0.010]
0.034***
[0.012]
-0.000
[0.000]
-0.006***
[0.001]
0.003
[0.002]
0.010***
[0.002]
0.014***
[0.002]
-0.112***
[0.024]
0.000***
[0.000]
-0.037***
[0.007]
0.018***
[0.001]
0.005***
[0.001]

Illiquidity
Year FE
Country FE
Observations
Pseudo R-squared

Yes
No
114,987
0.112

0.040***
[0.002]
0.110***
[0.014]
0.036***
[0.014]
-0.002***
[0.000]
-0.007***
[0.001]
-0.003
[0.003]
0.007***
[0.003]
0.008***
[0.003]
-0.117***
[0.027]
0.000***
[0.000]
-0.028***
[0.009]
0.014***
[0.002]
0.005***
[0.001]
-0.038***
[0.006]
Yes
No
90,470
0.106

43

0.047***
[0.003]
0.180***
[0.021]
0.037*
[0.019]
-0.002***
[0.001]
-0.008***
[0.001]
-0.002
[0.004]
0.011***
[0.003]
0.011***
[0.004]
-0.095***
[0.033]
0.000***
[0.000]
-0.012
[0.012]
0.011***
[0.002]
0.002
[0.002]
-0.031***
[0.007]
Yes
No
68,157
0.0842

0.049***
[0.003]
0.209***
[0.022]
0.031
[0.021]
-0.001**
[0.001]
-0.008***
[0.001]
-0.003
[0.004]
0.010***
[0.003]
0.011***
[0.004]
-0.073**
[0.033]
0.000**
[0.000]
-0.008
[0.012]
0.007**
[0.003]
-0.002
[0.002]
-0.013
[0.008]
Yes
Yes
68,157
0.0891

Table 5
Abnormal returns from activist engagement announcements
The table shows average cumulative abnormal returns (CARs) around the initial filing date or the first press disclosure date of
engagements, market model-adjusted. In panels C and D wolf pack engagements involving multiple funds are treated as one
engagement only; in case within a wolf pack engagement are disclosed on separate dates, CARs are summed per wolf pack,
across announcements. Stake held by activist (Start) indicates the activist stake at initial disclosure (summed over all
members of the wolf pack if applicable); Stake held by activist (High) indicates the highest stake the activist reaches during
the engagement (summed over all members of the wolf pack if applicable); and both variables are available for a subsample
of engagements. In panel D, Wolf pack (1/0) is a dummy variable indicating a wolf pack (1) or stand-alone (0) engagement;
and Residual wolf pack (start) is the residual from a regression of the Wolf pack (1/0) dummy on Stake held by activist
(Start), with announcement year and country fixed effects. Residual wolf pack (High) is the residual from the same
regression, but instead uses Stake held by activist (High). The event window is centered on day zero, where day zero
corresponds to the filing or press disclosure date. For the market model, factor loadings are estimated over 250 trading days
preceding the event window, using country-specific domestic market returns, with a minimum of 150 daily observations
(1,617 out of 1,740 engagement disclosures have sufficient data). Abnormal returns are winsorized at the 1st and 99th
percentiles. Standard errors (White 1980 heteroscedasticity robust in panel E) are reported in brackets. ***, **, and * indicate
significance at the 1%, 5%, and 10% level, respectively.
Sample
Event window: (-10,10)
Event window: (-20,20)
Abn. ret.
SE
N
Abn. ret.
SE
N
A. Abnormal returns around engagement disclosure
Full
6.14***
[0.36]
1,617
6.40***
[0.486]
1,617
Asia
6.06***
[0.912]
213
6.43***
[1.238]
213
Europe
3.93***
[0.632]
377
4.75***
[0.898]
377
North America
6.97***
[0.480]
1,027
7.00***
[0.641]
1,027
B. Time series of abnormal returns around engagement disclosure
Full sample
Asia
Europe
North America
Disclosure
CAR
CAR
CAR
CAR
CAR
CAR
CAR
CAR
year
(-10,10)
(-20,20)
(-10,10)
(-20,20)
(-10,10)
(-20,20)
(-10,10)
(-20,20)
2000
12.8
13.5
7.0
7.2
6.3
5.6
16.9
18.8
2001
5.3
9.4
-2.1
4.7
0.1
-5.8
6.8
13.0
2002
6.8
8.1
8.6
12.4
4.5
2.5
8.3
11.8
2003
7.8
8.8
18.1
17.9
6.4
9.6
7.5
8.0
2004
7.3
7.5
10.7
15.6
3.4
5.2
8.6
6.1
2005
4.3
4.3
2.4
1.8
2.5
5.0
5.8
5.0
2006
6.0
6.2
6.2
6.6
3.3
3.4
6.9
7.0
2007
4.8
4.4
4.2
3.7
3.5
3.5
5.5
4.9
2008
7.8
7.5
14.0
12.1
4.0
5.7
7.8
7.2
2009
5.5
7.3
-8.8
1.3
12.1
17.8
4.5
4.9
2010
6.7
6.4
1.1
1.2
8.4
7.9
C. Abnormal returns around stand-alone and wolf pack engagement disclosures
Sample
Event window: (-10,10)
Event window: (-20,20)
Abn. ret.
SE
N
Abn. ret.
SE
N
Stand-alone activist
5.99***
[0.45]
1,264
6.32***
[0.63]
1,264
Wolf pack activist
14.05***
[1.87]
164
13.82***
[2.33]
164
Difference
-8.06***
[1.41]
-7.50***
[1.93]

44

D. Regression of abnormal return around engagement disclosure on activist stakes and wolf pack status
Dependent variable:
CAR (-10,10)
CAR (-20,20)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
Stake held by activist (start)
0.18**
0.27***
0.19*
0.28***
[0.073]
[0.071]
[0.10]
[0.097]
Stake held by activist (high)
0.12** 0.15***
0.031
0.064
[0.053] [0.053]
[0.074]
[0.073]
Wolf pack (1/0)
6.99***
7.32***
6.39***
6.85***
[1.49]
[1.47]
[2.04]
[2.04]
Residual wolf pack (start)
7.26***
7.04***
[1.52]
[2.09]
Residual wolf pack (high)
7.05***
6.96***
[1.52]
[2.10]
Observations
1,216
1,216
1,048
1,048
1,216
1,216
1,048
1,048
Adjusted R-squared
0.028
0.028
0.029
0.026
0.013
0.014
0.010
0.009
E. Abnormal returns around domestic and foreign engagement disclosures
Domestic
Domestic
Foreign
Diff. (t-stat)
Foreign
(1)&(2) non-U.S.
U.S.
non-U.S.
U.S.
(3)&(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Event window: (-10,10)
7.02***
6.97***
3.84***
3.55***
4.01***
[1.02]
[0.49]
[0.86]
[0.74]
Event window: (-20,20)

7.34***
[1.44]

6.94***
[0.65]

45

4.27***
[1.12]

4.87***
[1.10]

2.21**

Table 6
Activist engagement outcomes
The table provides the number of engagements and subsequent successful outcomes by year of the outcome announcement.
Engagement outcomes are categorized as board changes (replacement of the CEO, Chairman, or Nonexecutive Directors),
changes to pay-out policy (share buybacks or increased/special dividends), restructuring (divestitures and spin-offs of
noncore assets, and blocking diversifying acquisitions), and takeovers (the target firm is acquired by a strategic buyer or
private equity fund). Results are separately reported for Asia, Europe (EU), and North America (NA). The stock of ongoing
engagements is number of outstanding engagements from the previous year plus entries minus exits.
Outcome
year
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010

2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010

Ongoing engagements (Stock)
Asia
EU
NA
Total
1
15
32
48
3
24
76
103
6
41
102
149
9
57
146
212
32
84
183
299
78
121
278
477
119
172
476
767
138
219
585
942
153
212
555
920
122
180
449
751
89
156
355
600
Board outcomes/stock
Asia
EU
NA
0.00
0.07 0.03
0.33
0.00 0.09
0.00
0.10 0.06
0.00
0.19 0.09
0.06
0.14 0.09
0.01
0.19 0.12
0.04
0.07 0.14
0.03
0.10 0.10
0.01
0.08 0.10
0.02
0.06 0.12
0.00
0.02 0.07

All successful outcomes
Asia
EU
NA
Total
2
2
9
13
1
6
19
26
1
14
24
39
2
26
31
59
7
33
44
84
8
49
69
126
11
58
169
238
17
75
180
272
9
33
148
190
5
18
101
124
0
13
47
60

Payout outcomes/stock
Asia
EU
NA
1.00
0.00
0.03
0.00
0.04
0.05
0.17
0.10
0.07
0.00
0.07
0.03
0.13
0.02
0.05
0.05
0.01
0.04
0.01
0.07
0.07
0.04
0.06
0.09
0.04
0.01
0.07
0.01
0.01
0.05
0.00
0.01
0.00

Board
2
8
10
24
31
58
86
83
75
64
27

Restruct. outcomes/stock
Asia
EU
NA
0.00
0.00
0.13
0.00
0.21
0.05
0.00
0.10
0.03
0.22
0.12
0.03
0.03
0.14
0.05
0.01
0.14
0.04
0.03
0.08
0.06
0.04
0.08
0.04
0.01
0.03
0.05
0.02
0.01
0.03
0.00
0.03
0.03

46

Outcomes by type
Payout
Restr.
2
4
5
9
12
7
9
14
15
23
17
29
48
44
70
44
47
36
25
17
2
14

Takeo.
5
4
10
12
15
22
60
75
32
18
17

Takeover outcomes/stock
Asia
EU
NA
1.00
0.07
0.09
0.00
0.00
0.05
0.00
0.05
0.08
0.00
0.07
0.05
0.00
0.08
0.04
0.03
0.07
0.04
0.02
0.12
0.08
0.01
0.10
0.09
0.00
0.03
0.05
0.00
0.03
0.03
0.00
0.03
0.04

Table 7
Abnormal returns from engagement outcomes
The table shows average cumulative abnormal returns (CARs) around the announcement of engagement outcomes (market
model adjusted) in panels A and B, engagement outcome sequencing in panel C, and compares multiple activist and standalone engagements in panel D and domestic and foreign engagements in panel E. Engagement outcomes are categorized as
board changes, changes to pay-out policy, restructuring, and takeovers. In case of multiple announcements of outcomes in an
engagement, CARs are summed across announcements. In case of multiple outcome types within an engagement. the
engagement is classified as “Multiple+Takeover” (if outcomes include a takeover) or “Multiple+NoTakeover.” The event
window is centered on the earliest announcement date of the outcome. Factor loadings are estimated over 250 trading days
preceding the event window, using country-specific domestic market returns, with a minimum of 150 daily observations. In
panels A and B, 850 out of 1,740 engagements have sufficient data and at least one subsequent outcome. In panel C, data are
reported for 150 outcomes of the 58 engagements that have multiple outcomes and involve a takeover (Multiple+Takeover).
In panel D, wolf pack engagements involving multiple funds are treated as one engagement only if individual engagements
within a wolf pack are disclosed on separate dates, CARs are summed per wolf pack, across announcements. Abnormal
returns are winsorized at the 1st and 99th percentiles. Standard errors are reported in brackets. ***, **, and * indicate
significance at the 1%, 5%, and 10% level, respectively.
A. Abnormal returns around engagement outcomes
Event window: (-10,10)
Event window: (-20,20)
Abn. ret.
SE
N
Abn. Ret.
SE
All outcomes
6.33***
[0.62]
850
6.42***
[0.78]
Board
4.04***
[1.00]
272
4.48***
[1.45]
Payout
1.42
[1.07]
134
-0.16
[1.54]
Restructuring
5.74***
[1.69]
118
5.60***
[1.92]
Takeover
9.33***
[1.16]
187
9.73***
[1.33]
Multiple+Takeover
18.3***
[3.68]
58
18.1***
[4.20]
Multiple+NoTakeover
7.46***
[2.44]
81
9.04***
[2.95]
B. Abnormal returns around engagement outcomes by region
Event window: (-10,10)
Event window: (-20,20)
Region
Outcome
Abn. Ret.
SE
N
Abn. Ret.
SE
Asia
All outcomes
4.03**
[1.91]
38
2.72
[3.48]
Board
-1.03
[5.56]
6
-4.20
[10.6]
Payout
2.34
[2.22]
15
-1.62
[3.98]
Restructuring
8.03*
[3.65]
9
4.60
[4.07]
Takeover
3.33
[8.16]
4
1.15
[13.7]
Multiple+Takeover
13.7***
[0.10]
2
1.70
[9.42]
Multiple+NoTakeover
5.60
[21.0]
2
51.7
[25.1]

N
850
272
134
118
187
58
81

N
38
6
15
9
4
2
2

Europe

All outcomes
Board
Payout
Restructuring
Takeover
Multiple+Takeover
Multiple+NoTakeover

8.32***
1.75
-0.21
5.53***
9.87***
27.3***
11.9**

[1.43]
[2.90]
[1.56]
[1.81]
[1.88]
[7.51]
[5.27]

183
43
12
33
54
16
25

8.77***
4.03
1.30
5.25**
10.8***
25.1**
10.3*

[1.74]
[4.19]
[3.06]
[2.09]
[2.25]
[9.45]
[5.93]

183
43
12
33
54
16
25

North
America

All outcomes
Board
Payout
Restructuring
Takeover
Multiple+Takeover
Multiple+NoTakeover

5.89***
4.62***
1.47
5.56**
9.29***
15.0***
5.49**

[0.72]
[1.07]
[1.30]
[2.48]
[1.48]
[4.34]
[2.66]

629
223
107
76
129
40
54

5.97***
4.80***
-0.11
5.87**
9.54***
16.2***
6.89**

[0.90]
[1.56]
[1.83]
[2.81]
[1.64]
[4.76]
[3.25]

629
223
107
76
129
40
54

C. Sequence of engagement outcomes for engagements with multiple outcomes that involve a takeover
Average engagement length
Average waiting time to event
with multiple outcome
Board
Payout
Restructuring
Takeover
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Time
806 days
Percentage
100
36
48
44
76
t-test vs. takeover (4)
-8.25***
-4.32***
-4.71***

47

P(Any outcome)
P(Board)
P(Payout)

All outcomes
Board
Payout
Restructuring
Takeover
Multiple

D. Abnormal returns around successful outcomes of stand-alone and wolf pack engagements
Stand-alone
Wolf pack
Diff
Stand-alone
Wolf pack
Diff
46%
78%
-8.11*** P(Restructuring)
6%
11%
-2.73***
12%
32%
-7.32*** P(Takeover)
11%
15%
-1.59
7%
9%
-1.01
P(Multiple)
11%
11%
-0.16
Event window: (-10,10)
Event window: (-20,20)
Stand-alone
Wolf pack
Diff
Stand-alone
Wolf pack
Diff
Abn. ret.
SE
ARet.
SE
ARet.
SE
ARet.
SE
6.38*** [0.76] 7.22***
[1.59]
-0.46
7.11***
[0.99]
5.89*** [1.81]
0.53
2.49*
[1.41]
4.74**
[2.21]
-0.84
4.20*
[2.16]
4.5
[3.04]
-0.07
1.66
[1.33]
-1.03
[2.39]
0.77
-0.27
[1.95]
-3.82
[3.11]
0.69
5.19*** [1.85]
5.8
[5.25]
-0.14
6.25**
[2.57]
4.07
[4.09]
0.4
8.75*** [1.33] 14.0***
[3.44]
-1.51
9.97***
[1.58]
11.6*** [3.36]
-0.4
12.0*** [2.13]
13.9**
[5.13]
-0.3
12.8***
[2.48]
12.6*
[6.31]
0.03
E. Abnormal returns around successful outcomes of domestic and foreign engagements
Domestic
Domestic
Foreign
Foreign
Diff. (t-stat)
non-U.S.
U.S.
non-U.S.
U.S.
(1)&(2) - (3)&(4)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)

P(Any outcome)
P(Board)
P(Payout)
P(Restructuring)
P(Takeover)

37%
18%
8%
10%
15%

57%
27%
13%
11%
16%

39%
17%
8%
10%
13%

41%
12%
10%
16%
12%

5.18***
4.84***
2.08**
-1.39
1.54

(-10,10) All outcomes
Board
Payout
Restructuring
Takeover
Multiple

ARet.
9.17***
-3.06
2.26
4.03
10.8**
24.0***

SE
[2.63]
[4.37]
[2.90]
[3.88]
[4.15]
[6.21]

ARet.
6.19***
4.90***
1.72
5.94**
9.33***
10.2***

SE
[0.73]
[1.08]
[1.33]
[2.54]
[1.49]
[2.46]

ARet.
6.19***
4.71
-1.33
7.43**
6.30**
11.1*

SE
[1.89]
[4.86]
[2.27]
[2.70]
[2.20]
[5.69]

ARet.
5.11***
0.11
0.76
5.09**
10.7***
7.06

SE
[1.69]
[2.30]
[2.15]
[2.30]
[2.62]
[9.47]

0.56
0.50
0.63
-0.05
0.30
0.62

(-20,20) All outcomes
Board
Payout
Restructuring
Takeover
Multiple

8.91***
-3.74
0.65
2.47
12.0**
23.5***

[3.25]
[6.57]
[9.07]
[3.59]
[4.50]
[7.51]

6.32***
5.18***
0.35
6.43**
9.61***
11.2***

[0.91]
[1.56]
[1.86]
[2.86]
[1.66]
[2.80]

7.39***
7.25
-5.17
4.87
9.13**
14.6*

[2.76]
[7.23]
[3.89]
[3.93]
[3.88]
[7.58]

4.35**
1.55
-0.61
5.03*
8.77**
5.02

[1.96]
[3.86]
[2.95]
[2.51]
[3.23]
[10.5]

0.34
0.53
0.66
0.26
0.62
0.47

48

Table 8
Abnormal returns from activist engagements, announcement to exit
The table reports calendar-time portfolio returns of all firms targeted by activists, using monthly return data (n=132). In panel
A, portfolios are formed and rebalanced each month to include all firms that have been engaged by an activist within the
event window. The event window for each engagement begins in t=0, the month of the initial filing date or the first press
disclosure date and ends in the month during which the activist ended the engagement or, if no exit date is known, December
2010. In panel B, three portfolios are constructed similarly with the event window decomposed into “only months t=0”, “only
months with outcome announcements”, and “all other months.” Alpha is the intercept on a regression of monthly portfolio
excess returns. The explanatory variables are the excess return of the market (MktModel) and the four Fama and French
(1993) and Carhart (1997) mimicking portfolios (Carhart), based on U.S. return data. Alphas are in annual percentages. L/S is
annual average return of a zero cost portfolio that holds the portfolio of engagements with outcomes and sells short the
portfolio of engagements with no outcomes. Returns are winsorized at the 1st and 99th percentiles. Standard errors are in
brackets. ***, **, and * indicate significance at the 1%, 5%, and 10% level, respectively.
Equalweighted

With outcomes

A. Abnormal return, announcement to exit
With no outcomes
L/S (outcomes-no outcomes)

All engagements

MktModel
alpha
(1)
8.399**
[4.119]

Carhart
alpha
(2)
1.104
[3.407]

MktModel
alpha
(3)
-5.513
[3.804]

Carhart
alpha
(4)
-9.750***
[3.608]

MktModel
alpha
(5)
13.912***
[4.014]

Carhart
alpha
(6)
10.854***
[4.078]

MktModel
alpha
(7)
1.984
[3.254]

Carhart
alpha
(8)
-3.547
[2.737]

Asia

13.379**
[5.141]

11.568**
[5.189]

1.204
[5.458]

-0.809
[5.469]

12.175**
[5.267]

12.377**
[5.418]

3.327
[3.745]

3.286
[3.901]

Europe

5.643
[4.302]

1.413
[4.199]

-8.853
[5.500]

-12.697**
[5.390]

14.496***
[5.330]

14.110**
[5.544]

-2.190
[4.153]

-5.904
[4.022]

N. America

8.104*
-0.801
[4.559]
[3.585]
With outcomes

-5.271
-11.784***
[4.763]
[4.423]
With no outcomes

11.254***
[3.473]

7.987**
[3.340]

3.999
[5.251]

2.325
[5.379]

7.255
[5.982]

5.662
[6.140]

7.598**
[3.134]

4.966
[3.064]

Asia

14.183**
[6.172]

13.216**
[6.299]

2.587
[6.717]

0.588
[6.820]

11.596
[8.194]

12.628
[8.350]

4.482
[4.047]

4.509
[4.211]

Europe

8.238*
[4.889]

8.077*
[4.781]

4.587
[6.506]

3.209
[6.702]

3.650
[7.222]

4.868
[7.417]

6.397
[4.583]

5.757
[4.611]

N. America

11.309**
[4.613]

6.550
[4.449]

1.380
[6.633]

-1.206
[6.816]

9.930
[8.513]

7.756
[8.675]

8.065**
[3.964]

3.723
[3.796]

Full sample

Valueweighted
Full sample

49

13.374***
10.983**
[4.475]
[4.606]
L/S (outcomes-no outcomes)

1.753
-5.296*
[3.520]
[2.805]
All engagements

Equal-weighted
Value-weighted

Equal-weighted
Value-weighted

Equal-weighted
Value-weighted

B. Abnormal return, decomposition of event window
With outcomes
With no outcomes
MktModel alpha
Carhart alpha
MktModel alpha
Carhart alpha
Portfolio: Only months t=0
18.859***
18.552***
14.213***
16.841***
[3.671]
[3.840]
[3.779]
[3.854]
18.781***
18.449***
14.505***
16.976***
[5.256]
[5.507]
[4.465]
[4.595]
Portfolio: Only months with outcome announcements
27.545***
26.793***
[4.451]
[4.619]
26.409***
28.225***
[5.669]
[5.870]
Portfolio: All other months
-1.302
-6.670**
-7.250*
-11.677***
[3.090]
[2.573]
[3.674]
[3.436]
5.842**
3.374
6.306
3.987
[2.917]
[2.768]
[4.970]
[5.061]

50

Table 9
Engagement probabilities and returns across countries
Dependent variables are as indicated in column titles. Columns 1 to 3: Engagement disclosure CARs are calculated as in
Table 5. Columns 4 to 6: Outcome disclosure CARs are calculated as in Table 7; engagements without outcomes are assigned
a zero return. Columns 7 to 9: Sample and variables are as in Table 4. Columns 10 to 12: The sample from Columns 7 to 9 is
collapsed into country-year observations. The fraction of firms engaged in country x in year t is calculated as the number of
firms that are currently engaged by an activist divided by the total number of firms, per country and year. Market cap/GDP
(market capitalization of listed domestic firms over GDP), Rule of law (the perception of the extent to which agents have
confidence in and abide by the rules of society) are from the Worldbank as of 2000; Disclosure threshold is the minimum
regulatory disclosure threshold for blockholders; Common Law equals one for countries with common law, zero otherwise;
the Revised antidirector index is from Djankov et al. (2008); Quality of governance (the percentage of governance attributes
for which an average firm meets or exceeds the minimum satisfactory standard on 44 governance attributes), Board
independence (whether or not an average firm’s board is controlled by more than 50% independent outside directors), and
Board structure (whether or not an average firm’s board is annually elected/not staggered) are from Aggarwal et al. (2009).
Institutional ownership variables include domestic and foreign institutional ownership, firm-level control variables include
Market-to-book, Leverage, Cash, Dividend yield, Payout, Investment, U.S. accounting standards, Index membership, and
Illiquidity, all as defined in Table 4. Firm-level explanatory variables are as of the year during which the engagement is
announced. All nonbinary variables are winsorized at the 1st and 99th percentiles. White (1980) heteroscedasticity-robust
standard errors are reported in brackets. ***, **, and * indicate significance at the 1%, 5%, and 10% level, respectively.
Dependent variable

IO_Domestic
IO_Foreign_U.S.

(1)
(2)
(3)
Engagement disclosure
CAR (-20,20)

Market cap/GDP
Rule of law

(7)

(8)
(9)
Firm engaged in
year t (1) or not (0)

(10)
(11)
(12)
Fraction of firms engaged in
country x in year t

2.165

0.554

-0.217

1.374

0.813

-0.164

[2.714]

[3.892]

[3.908]

[2.531]

[3.330]

[3.377]

[0.002]

[0.003]

[1.804]

[1.594]

-0.648

-3.410

1.698

30.004

45.681*

48.629*

0.114*** 0.091*** 0.184***

-7.169

1.822

2.353

[25.518] [23.647] [25.441]

[0.014]

[5.600]

[5.733]

[7.330]

24.599

0.056*** 0.058*** 0.094*** 13.170*** 16.902*** 15.123***

[21.954] [23.137] [22.396]
IO_Foreign Non-U.S.

(4)
(5)
(6)
Outcome disclosure
CAR (-20,20)

10.174

11.557

14.014

29.628

26.282*

0.043*** 0.052*** 0.054*** 5.952*** 8.728*** 8.070***

[20.633] [21.568] [21.775]

[16.250] [18.410] [15.864]

[0.013]

0.039*

0.001

-0.000***

[0.003]
[0.014]
[0.014]

[0.019]
[0.017]

[4.673]

[0.020]

[0.000]

[0.001]

-4.097

7.186**

0.022***

1.200***

[3.160]

Common law
Antidirector rights

[2.851]

[0.001]

[0.161]

1.797*

-0.684

-0.007***

[0.972]

[0.878]

[0.001]

[0.060]

0.257

4.242*

-0.020***

-0.988***

[2.834]

[2.433]

[0.002]

[0.340]

-0.517

0.524

0.004***

-0.206*

[1.253]

Quality of governance

[1.064]

[5.222]

-0.001

[0.024]

Disclosure threshold

[4.547]

[2.384]

-0.279***

[0.001]

[0.108]

16.228

3.783

-0.031

[29.748]

[38.336]

[0.025]

-5.488***
[1.953]

Board independence

-3.074

3.893

-0.008*

1.146***

[6.161]

[7.359]

[0.005]

[0.397]

Board structure

10.649**

2.054

0.018***

-0.685**

[4.452]

[4.313]

[0.004]

[0.324]

Year FE

Entry

Entry

Entry

Entry

Entry

Entry

Firm-level controls

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

916

914

90,470

89,515

74,832

0.089
Probit

0.089
Probit

0.067
Probit

440
–

402
–

230
–

GLM

GLM

GLM

Observations

730

721

719

927

Adj. R-sq./Pseudo R-sq.

-0.012
OLS

-0.012
OLS

-0.010
OLS

0.031

0.029

0.028

OLS

OLS

OLS

Estimation

51

Calendar Calendar Calendar Calendar Calendar Calendar

about ECGI
The European Corporate Governance Institute has been established to improve corporate governance through fostering independent scientific research and related activities.
The ECGI produces and disseminates high quality research while remaining close to the
concerns and interests of corporate, financial and public policy makers. It draws on the
expertise of scholars from numerous countries and bring together a critical mass of expertise and interest to bear on this important subject.
The views expressed in this working paper are those of the authors, not those of the ECGI
or its members.

www.ecgi.org

ECGI Working Paper Series in Finance
Editorial Board
Editor

Ernst Maug, Professor of Corporate Finance, University of
Mannheim, ECGI

Consulting Editors

Franklin Allen, Nippon Life Professor of Finance and		
Economics, The Wharton School, University of 			
Pennsylvania, ECGI
Julian Franks, Professor of Finance, London Business School,
ECGI and CEPR
Marco Pagano, Professor of Economics, Università di Napoli
Federico II, ECGI and CEPR
Xavier Vives, Professor of Economics and Financial 		
Management, IESE Business School, University of Navarra,
ECGI and CEPR
Luigi Zingales, Robert C. McCormack Professor of 		
Entrepreneurship and Finance, University of Chicago, Booth
School of Business, ECGI and CEPR
Pascal Busch, University of Mannheim
Marcel Mager, University of Mannheim

Editorial Assistants :

www.ecgi.org\wp

Electronic Access to the Working Paper Series
The full set of ECGI working papers can be accessed through the Institute’s Web-site
(www.ecgi.org/wp) or SSRN:
Finance Paper Series

http://www.ssrn.com/link/ECGI-Finance.html

Law Paper Series

http://www.ssrn.com/link/ECGI-Law.html

www.ecgi.org\wp

