Hedge Fund Activism,
Corporate Governance, and
Firm Performance
Finance Working Paper N° 139/2006
May 2008

Alon Brav
Duke University, NBER and ECGI

Wei Jiang

Columbia University

Randall S. Thomas
Vanderbilt University and ECGI

Frank Partnoy
University of California, Berkeley

© Alon Brav, Wei Jiang, Randall S. Thomas and
Frank Partnoy 2008. All rights reserved. Short sections of text, not to exceed two paragraphs, may be
quoted without explicit permission provided that full
credit, including © notice, is given to the source.
This paper can be downloaded without charge from:
http://ssrn.com/abstract_id=948907
www.ecgi.global/content/working-papers

ECGI Working Paper Series in Finance

Hedge Fund Activism, Corporate Governance,
and Firm Performance
Working Paper N° 139/2006
November 2008

Alon Brav
Wei Jiang
Randall S. Thomas
Frank Partnoy
The authors have benefited from discussions with Patrick Bolton, Bill Bratton, Martijn Cremers, Gregory
Dyra, Alex Edmans, Allen Ferrell, Gur Huberman, Joe Mason, Edward Rock, Roberta Romano, Tano Santos,
William Spitz, Gregory van Inwegen, and comments from seminar and conference participants at the American
Law and Economics Association, Arizona State University, Association of American Law Schools, BNP
Paribas Hedge Fund Centre Symposium, Chicago Quantitative Alliance, Columbia University, The Conference
Board, Drexel University, Duke University, FDIC, University of Florida, Goldman Sachs Asset Management,
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Interdisciplinary Center (Herzlyia, Israel), Inquire (UK),
University of Kansas, London Business School, Nanyang Technological University, National University of
Singapore, Singapore Management University, Society of Quantitative Analysts, University of Amsterdam,
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, University of Texas at Austin, University of Virginia, University of
Washington, Washington University in St. Louis, Wharton, the European Financial Management Association
annual meeting in Vienna, and the Vanderbilt Investor Activism Conference. We owe special thanks to a large
number of research assistants for their help in data collection and, in particular, to Jennifer Blessing, Amod
Gautam, Greg Klochkoff and Samantha Prouty. We also thank George Murillo for excellent research assistance.
Brav and Jiang acknowledge the financial support from the FDIC and the Q-Group. Jiang also thanks support
from Ivy Asset Management Corp. through their partnership with Columbia Business School.

© Alon Brav, Wei Jiang, Randall S. Thomas and Frank Partnoy 2008. All rights reserved. Short
sections of text, not to exceed two paragraphs, may be quoted without explicit permission provided
that full credit, including © notice, is given to the source.

Abstract
Using a large hand-collected dataset from 2001 to 2006, we find that activist
hedge funds in the U.S. propose strategic, operational, and financial remedies
and attain success or partial success in two thirds of the cases. Hedge funds seldom seek control and in most cases are nonconfrontational. The abnormal return
around the announcement of activism is approximately 7%, with no reversal
during the subsequent year. Target firms experience increases in payout, operating performance, and higher CEO turnover after activism. Our analysis provides
important new evidence on the mechanisms and effects of informed shareholder
monitoring.
Keywords: Hedge Fund, Activism, Governance
JEL Classifications: G14, G23, G3

Alon Brav*

Robert L. Dickens Professor of Finance
Duke University, Fuqua School of Business
100 Fuqua Drive
Durham, NC 27708, United States
phone: +1 919 660 2908
e-mail: brav@duke.edu

Wei Jiang

Arthur F. Burns Professor of Free and Competitive Enterprise
Columbia University, Columbia Business School
3022 Broadway
New York, NY 10027, United States
phone: +1 212 854 9002
e-mail: wj2006@gsb.columbia.edu

Randall S. Thomas

John S. Beasley II Chair in Law and Business and Professor of
Management
Vanderbilt University, School of Law
131 21st Avenue South
Nashville, TN 37203, United States
phone: +1 615 343 3814
e-mail: randall.thomas@vanderbilt.edu

Frank Partnoy

Professor
University of California, Berkeley, School of Law
215 Boalt Hall
Berkeley, CA 94720-7200, United States
e-mail: fpartnoy@gmail.com

*Corresponding Author

European Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)
Finance Working Paper No. 139/2006

~and~
Vanderbilt University
Law & Economics Research Paper No. 07-28

Hedge Fund Activism, Corporate Governance, and Firm
Performance

ALON BRAV
Duke University - Fuqua School of Business
WEI JIANG
Columbia Business School - Finance and Economics Division
RANDALL S. THOMAS
Vanderbilt University - School of Law; Vanderbilt University - Owen Graduate School of
Management
FRANK PARTNOY
University of San Diego - School of Law

This paper can be downloaded without charge from the
Social Science Research Network Electronic Paper Collection:
http://ssrn.com/abstract=948907

FDIC Center for Financial Research
Working Paper
No. 2008-06
Hedge Fund Activism, Corporate Governance, and
Firm Performance

May 2008

The views expressed here are those of the author(s) and not necessarily
those of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

Federal Dposit Insurance Corporation • Center for Financial Research

Hedge Fund Activism, Corporate Governance, and Firm Performance
Alon Brav, Wei Jiang, Frank Partnoy, and Randall Thomas*
ABSTRACT
Using a large hand-collected dataset from 2001 to 2006, we find that activist hedge funds in
the U.S. propose strategic, operational, and financial remedies and attain success or partial
success in two thirds of the cases. Hedge funds seldom seek control and in most cases are nonconfrontational. The abnormal return around the announcement of activism is approximately 7%,
with no reversal during the subsequent year. Target firms experience increases in payout,
operating performance, and higher CEO turnover after activism. Our analysis provides important
new evidence on the mechanisms and effects of informed shareholder monitoring.

JEL Classification: G14, G23, G3.
Keywords: Hedge Fund, Activism, Corporate Governance.

* Brav: Duke University, Durham, NC 27708, Tel: (919) 660-2908, email: brav@duke.edu. Jiang:
Columbia University, New York, NY 10027, Tel: (212) 854-9002, email: wj2006@columbia.edu. Partnoy:
University of San Diego, San Diego CA 92110, Tel: (619) 260-2352, email: fpartnoy@sandiego.edu. Thomas:
Vanderbilt University, Nashville TN 37203, Tel: (615) 343-3814, email: randall.thomas@law.vanderbilt.edu. The
authors have benefited from discussions with Patrick Bolton, Bill Bratton, Martijn Cremers, Gregory Dyra, Alex
Edmans, Allen Ferrell, Gur Huberman, Joe Mason, Edward Rock, Roberta Romano, Tano Santos, William Spitz,
Gregory van Inwegen, and comments from seminar and conference participants at the American Law and
Economics Association, Arizona State University, Association of American Law Schools, BNP Paribas Hedge Fund
Centre Symposium, Chicago Quantitative Alliance, Columbia University, The Conference Board, Drexel
University, Duke University, FDIC, University of Florida, Goldman Sachs Asset Management, Hong Kong
University of Science and Technology, Interdisciplinary Center (Herzlyia, Israel), Inquire (UK), University of
Kansas, London Business School, Nanyang Technological University, National University of Singapore, Singapore
Management University, Society of Quantitative Analysts, University of Amsterdam, U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, University of Texas at Austin, University of Virginia, University of Washington, Washington
University in St. Louis, Wharton, the European Financial Management Association annual meeting in Vienna, and
the Vanderbilt Investor Activism Conference. We owe special thanks to a large number of research assistants for
their help in data collection and, in particular, to Jennifer Blessing, Amod Gautam, Greg Klochkoff and Samantha
Prouty. We also thank George Murillo for excellent research assistance. Brav and Jiang acknowledge the financial
support from the FDIC and the Q-Group. Jiang also thanks support from Ivy Asset Management Corp. through their
partnership with Columbia Business School.

Although hedge fund activism is widely discussed and fundamentally important, it remains poorly
understood. Much of the commentary on hedge fund activism is based on supposition or anecdotal
evidence. Critics and regulators question whether hedge fund activism benefits shareholders, while
numerous commentators claim that hedge fund activists destroy value by distracting managers from longterm projects. However, there is a dearth of large-sample evidence about hedge fund activism, and
existing samples are plagued by various biases. As a result, even the most basic questions about hedge
fund activism remain unanswered: Which firms do activists target and how do those targets respond?
How does the market react to the announcement of activism? Do activists succeed in implementing their
objectives? Are activists short-term in focus? How does activism impact firm performance? In this paper,
we answer these questions by constructing the most extensive and thoroughly documented set of
observations of hedge fund activism to date, extending from the beginning of 2001 through the end of
2006.
We find that hedge funds increasingly engage in a new form of shareholder activism and
monitoring that differs fundamentally from previous activist efforts by other institutional investors.
Earlier studies showed that when institutional investors, particularly mutual funds and pension funds,
followed an activist agenda, they did not achieve significant benefits for shareholders (Karpoff (2001),
Romano (2001), Black (1998), and Gillan and Starks (2007)). Our results suggest that the opposite is true
of hedge funds. Unlike mutual funds and pension funds, hedge funds are able to influence corporate
boards and managements due to key differences arising from their different organizational form and the
incentives that they face.

Hedge funds employ highly incentivized managers who manage large

unregulated pools of capital. Lack of regulation implies that they are able to hold highly concentrated
positions in small numbers of companies, and making use of leverage and derivatives to extend their
reach. Hedge fund managers also suffer few conflicts of interest because they are not beholden to the
management of the firms whose shares they hold. In sum, hedge funds are better positioned to act as
informed monitors than other institutional investors.
Hedge fund activists tend to target companies that are typically “value” firms, with low market
value relative to book value, although they are profitable with sound operating cash flows and return on
assets. Payout at these companies before intervention is lower than that of a matched sample. Target
companies also have more takeover defenses and pay their CEOs considerably more than comparable
companies. Relatively few targeted companies are large-cap firms, which is not surprising given the
relatively high cost of amassing a meaningful stake in such a target. Targets exhibit significantly higher
institutional ownership and trading liquidity. These characteristics make it easier for activists to acquire a
significant stake quickly.

2

Our first piece of evidence regarding the impact of hedge fund activism is based on the market
reaction to the announcement of intervention. We find that the market reacts favorably to activism,
consistent with the view that it creates value. The filing of a Schedule 13D revealing an activist fund’s
investment in a target firm results in large positive average abnormal returns, in the range of 7% to 8%,
during the (-20,+20) announcement window. The increase in both price and abnormal trading volume of
target shares begins one to ten days prior to the 13D’s filing. We find that the positive returns at
announcement are not reversed over time, as there is no evidence of a negative abnormal drift during the
one-year period subsequent to the announcement. We also document that the positive abnormal returns
are only marginally lower for hedge funds that disclosed substantial ownership positions (through
quarterly Form 13F filings) before they file a Schedule 13D, which is consistent with the view that the
abnormal returns are due to new information about activism, not merely that about stock picking.
Moreover, target prices decline upon the exit of a hedge fund only after it has been unsuccessful, which
indicates that the information reflected in the positive announcement returns conveys the market’s
expectation for the success of activism.
We next examine the cross-section of these abnormal returns. Activism that targets the sale of
the company or changes in business strategy, such as refocusing and spinning-off non-core assets, is
associated with the largest positive abnormal partial effects of 8.54% and 5.95%, respectively (the latter
figure is lower than the overall sample average because most events target multiple issues).

This

evidence suggests that hedge funds are able to create value when they see large allocative inefficiencies.
In contrast, we find that the market response to capital-structure related activism—including debt
restructuring, recapitalization, dividends, and share repurchases – is positive, yet insignificant. We find a
similar lack of statistically meaningful reaction for governance-related activism—including attempts to
rescind take-over defenses, to oust CEOs, to enhance board independence, and to curtail CEO
compensation. Hedge funds with a track record of successful activism generate higher returns, as do
hedge funds that initiate activism with hostile tactics.
The positive market reaction is also consistent with ex-post evidence of overall improved
performance at target firms. On average, from the year before announcement to the year after, total
payout increases by 0.3-0.5 percentage points (as a percentage of the market value of equity, relative to an
all-sample mean of 2.2 percentage points), and book value leverage increases by 1.3-1.4 percentage points
(relative to an all-sample mean of 33.5 percentage points). Both changes are consistent with a reduction
of agency problems associated with free cash flow and subject managers to increased market discipline.
We also find improvement in return on assets and operating profit margins, but this takes longer to
happen. The post-event year sees little change compared to the year prior to intervention. However,
EBITDA/Assets (EBITDA/Sales) at target firms increase by 0.9-1.5 (4.7-5.8) percentage points by two

3

years after intervention. Analyst expectations also suggest improved prospects at target firms after hedge
fund intervention. During the months before Schedule 13D filings, analysts downgrade (future) targets
more than they upgrade them whereas after intervention is announced analysts maintain neutral ratings.
Given that successful activism often leads to attrition through sale of the target company, any ex post
performance analysis based on surviving firms may underestimate the positive effect of activism.
Hedge fund activists are not short-term in focus, as some critics have claimed. The median
holding period for completed deals is about one year, calculated as running from the date a hedge fund
files a Schedule 13D to the date when the fund no longer holds a significant stake in a target company.
The calculation substantially understates the actual median holding period, because it necessarily
excludes a significant number of events where no exit information is available by March 2007. Analysis
of portfolio turnover rates of the funds in our sample suggests holding periods of closer to twenty months.
Since shareholders are by no means the only party affected by hedge fund activism we also ask
whether other stakeholders are impacted. In particular, we consider the possibility that the positive stock
market reaction to activism might reflect wealth redistribution from creditors and executives. We find that
hedge fund activism does not shift value from creditors to shareholders. Indeed, the 174 targets with no
long-term debt have slightly higher announcement returns than the rest of the sample. On the other hand,
we do see evidence that hedge fund activism shifts value away from senior managers. In particular,
hedge fund activism is not kind to CEOs of target firms. During the year after the announcement of
activism, average CEO pay declines by about one million dollars, and the CEO turnover rate increases by
almost 10 percentage points, controlling for the normal turnover rates in the same industry, and for firms
of similar size and stock valuation.
An important feature of our sample is that we include both hostile and non-hostile interactions
between funds and targets. Although some commentators have characterized hedge fund activism as
fundamentally hostile to managers, we actually find that hedge fund activists are openly hostile in less
than 30% of cases (hostility includes a threatened or actual proxy contest, takeover, lawsuit, or public
campaign that is openly confrontational).

More commonly, hedge fund activists cooperate with

managers, at least at the initial stages of their intervention, and achieve all or most of their stated goals in
about two-thirds of all cases. Managerial opposition to hedge fund activism may stem from its negative
impact on CEO pay and turnover even if it ultimately creates value for shareholders.
Our findings have important implications for the policy debate about hedge fund activism.
Although some prominent legal commentators, including leading corporate lawyers and European
regulators, have called for restrictions on hedge fund activism because of its supposedly short-term
orientation, our results suggest that activist hedge funds are not short-term holders. Activists also appear
to generate substantial value for target firm shareholders. Indeed, our evidence of the market’s positive

4

response to hedge fund activism, and the subsequent success of activists, challenges the premises of
proposals requiring increased hedge fund regulation.
For policy makers, our paper shows important distinctions between the role of hedge funds and
other private institutional investors, such as private equity firms. Despite their frequently aggressive
behavior, activist hedge funds do not typically seek control in target companies. The median maximum
ownership stake for the entire sample is about 9.1%. Even at the 95th percentile in the full sample, the
stake is 31.5%—far short of the level for majority control.

Activists rely on cooperation from

management or, in its absence, support from fellow shareholders to implement their value-improving
agendas. This explains why hedge fund activists tend to target companies with higher institutional
holdings and analyst coverage, both of which suggest a more sophisticated shareholder base. It is also
common for multiple hedge funds to coordinate by co-filing Schedule 13Ds (about 22% of the sample) or
acting in tandem without being a formal block. Although some regulators have criticized such informal
block behavior as anticompetitive, coordination among hedge funds can benefit shareholders overall by
facilitating activism at relatively low individual ownership stakes.
The new evidence presented in this paper suggests that activist hedge funds occupy an important
middle ground between internal monitoring by large shareholders and external monitoring by corporate
raiders. Activist hedge funds are more flexible, incentivized, and independent than internal monitors, and
they can generate multiple gains from targeting several companies on similar issues. Conversely, activist
hedge funds have advantages over external corporate raiders, because they take smaller stakes, often
benefit from cooperation with management, and have support from other shareholders. This hybrid
internal-external role puts activist hedge funds in a potentially unique position to reduce the agency costs
associated with the separation of ownership and control.
The rest of the paper proceeds as follows. Section I provides the institutional background and
literature review about shareholder activism. Section II describes the sample. Section III discusses the
characteristics of target companies. Section IV looks at stock market reaction to hedge fund activism.
Section V analyzes firm performance before and after activism. We present some conclusions in Section
VI.

I.

Institutional Background and Literature Review

The activist blockholders of the 1980s are the closest ancestors to hedge fund activists. Bethel,
Liebeskind and Opler (1998) compiled a sample of such blockholders which they classify as activists;
financial organizations (including banks, pension funds, money managers and insurance companies); and
strategic investors, such as conglomerates.

They found that activist blockholders targeted poorly

5

performing companies, that their activism led to increased asset divestitures and share repurchases, and
that their investments were associated with improvements in profitability and shareholder value.
Financial and strategic blockholders also targeted underperforming companies, but that their targets
showed smaller changes in their operations and profitability and the market reaction to these investors’
block purchases was insignificant as well.
In response to these successful forms of shareholder activism during the 1980s, firms
implemented a variety of takeover defenses, many of which were upheld by courts. These defenses
increasingly deterred change of control transactions by activists. As hostile transactions seeking control
declined, so did the role of control-driven shareholder activists (although such control-driven activism
recently has resurfaced, particularly in going-private transactions). Meanwhile, mutual funds and pension
funds continued to press activist agendas, including corporate governance reform and a range of social
and political issues, again with minimal impact.
For the past twenty years, institutional investors, religious organizations, labor unions,
individuals, and other groups have engaged in shareholder activism, but with mixed results. Public
pension funds and other activist investors have engaged in shareholder activism using Rule 14a-8, which
permits shareholder proposals on a variety of topics (Karpoff, Malatesta and Walkling (1996)). Larger
public pension funds and mutual funds have tried a variety of other techniques to influence corporate
management (Wahal (1996), Smith (1996), Del Guercio and Hawkins (1999), Carleton, Nelson and
Weisbach (1998) and Gillan and Starks (2000)). As several literature surveys have shown, the results of
this type of activism by these institutions have been disappointing: they cause only small changes to
firms’ corporate governance structures and do not measurably affect stock prices or earnings (Karpoff
(2001), Romano (2001), Black (1998), Del Guercio, Wallis and Woidtke (2006), Barber (2006) and
Gillan and Starks (2007)). More recently Becht, Franks, Mayer, and Rossi (2006) gather data on nonpublic and public activism by Hermes U.K., a leading U.K. pension fund. They do not find positive
market reaction to public notification of Hermes’s stake, although there is a significant 3% market
reaction to governance outcomes of Hermes’s activism.
Institutional investor monitoring generally has been plagued by regulatory and structural barriers,
including: collective action issues that lead to free riding on the efforts of others (Black (1990), Kahan
and Rock (2006)); conflicts of interest, such as, those mutual funds face when considering activism at
future clients (Black (1990)); regulatory constraints, including diversification requirements and insider
trading regulations (Black (1990)); political constraints where managers are constrained by local and state
politics from engaging in activism (Romano (1993)); and weak personal financial incentives for fund
managers to engage in interventions (Rock (1992)). Due to these limitations, the “Wall Street Rule” often
becomes the default form of institutional shareholder activism (Admati and Pfleiderer (2005)).

6

For example, mutual funds face adverse tax consequences if they put more than 5% of their assets
in any one company or own more than a 10% stake. The Securities and Exchange Commission also
limits the types of fees that companies regulated by the Investment Company Act of 1940 may charge.
Likewise, regulated funds are subject to restrictions on shorting, borrowing, and investing in illiquid
securities. There are exemptions from SEC rules, but they generally require either that the fund remain
private (by not offering investments to the public and maintaining no more than 100 investors) or that the
fund have only “qualified” high net worth investors (the current definition requires that a person must
own at least $5 million of investments to be “qualified”). As a result, any investment fund that is broadly
sold to the public or that has investors without substantial net worth is prohibited, among other things,
from holding concentrated positions and charging substantial performance fees.
Hedge funds are different. Although there is no generally agreed-upon definition of a hedge fund
– a Securities and Exchange Commission roundtable discussion on hedge funds considered fourteen
different possible definitions (SEC Roundtable on Hedge Funds (2003)) 1 – hedge funds are usually
identified by four characteristics: (1) they are pooled, privately organized investment vehicles; (2) they
are administered by professional investment managers with performance-based compensation and
significant investments in the fund; (3) they are not widely available to the public; and (4) they operate
outside of securities regulation and registration requirements (Partnoy and Thomas (2006)).

More

specifically, hedge funds avoid the Investment Company Act of 1940 by having a relatively small number
of sophisticated investors.
The typical hedge fund is a partnership entity managed by a general partner; the investors are
limited partners who are passive and have little or no say in the hedge fund’s business. Hedge fund
managers have sharp incentives to generate positive returns because their pay depends primarily on
performance. A typical hedge fund charges its investors a fixed annual fee of 2% of its assets plus a 20%
performance fee based on the fund’s annual return. Although managers of other institutions can be
awarded bonus compensation in part based on performance, their incentives tend to be more muted
because they capture a much smaller percentage of any returns, and because the Investment Company Act
of 1940 limits performance fees.
Hedge fund managers can take much larger relative positions than other institutions because they
are not required by law to maintain diversified portfolios. Unlike mutual funds, hedge funds may hold
large percentage stakes in individual companies and may require that investors agree to “lock-up” their
funds for period of two years or longer. In contrast, mutual funds are required by law to hold diversified
portfolios, and to sell securities within one day to satisfy investor redemptions. Moreover, because hedge
funds do not fall under the Investment Company Act regulation, they are permitted to trade on margin and

7

engage in derivatives trading, strategies that are not available to other institutions, such as mutual and
pension funds. As a result, hedge funds have greater flexibility in trading than other institutions.
Unlike many institutional investors, such as pension funds, hedge funds generally are not subject
to heightened fiduciary standards, such as those embodied in ERISA. The majority of hedge fund
investors tend to be wealthy individuals and large institutions, and hedge funds typically raise capital
through private offerings that are not subject to extensive disclosure requirements or other regulations.
Although hedge fund managers are bound by the anti-fraud provisions of United States securities laws,
they are not otherwise subject to more extensive regulation, such as “prudent man” investing standards.
Finally, hedge fund managers typically suffer fewer conflicts of interest than managers at other
institutions. For example, unlike mutual funds that are affiliated with large financial institutions, hedge
funds do not sell products to the firms whose shares they hold. Unlike pension funds, hedge funds are not
subject to extensive state or local influence, or political control.
Hedge fund managers have powerful and independent incentives to generate positive returns.
Although many private equity or venture capital funds also have these characteristics, those funds are
distinguished from hedge funds because of their focus on particular private capital markets. Private
equity investors typically target private firms or going private transactions, and acquire larger percentage
ownership stakes than hedge fund activists. Venture capital investors typically target private firms
exclusively, with a view to selling the company, merging, or going public, and therefore they invest at
much earlier stages than both private equity and activist hedge funds. Nevertheless, the lines among these
investors are not always crisp, and there is some substantive overlap, particularly between some private
equity firms and activist hedge funds. Moreover, hedge funds (and private equity firms) frequently
pursue multiple strategies, and some of the hedge funds in our sample are not exclusively activist in
nature.
There have been a few attempts at studying hedge fund activism based on limited samples.
Bradley, Brav, Goldstein, and Jiang (2007) collect a comprehensive sample of hedge fund activism aimed
at opening up discounted closed-end funds and analyze its impact on closed-end fund governance and
discount dynamics. A few recent papers have studied hedge fund activism in the U.S. Generally, these
papers do not provide a complete explanation of the role of hedge fund activism due to the size and
selection of their samples. For example, Bratton (2006) and Kahan and Rock (2006) assemble useful
anecdotal evidence of hedge fund activism, but cover only a small percentage of the events in our sample
and do not examine returns, performance, or cross-sectional variation in any detail.
Two recent papers study U.S. hedge fund activism. Klein and Zur (2006) use a sample of 194
Schedule 13D filings by hedge fund activists from 2003 to 2005, although they omit activism below the
5% threshold and most of the non-confrontational hedge fund activism, where hedge fund managers

8

worked collaboratively with portfolio firm management. Clifford (2007) collects a sample of 1,902 firmfund observations over the period 1998-2005, but only examines stock price reaction and changes in
operating performance without analyzing the pattern of targeting, company response, and outcome of the
interventions. Both papers find that hedge fund activism generates significantly higher abnormal stock
returns than a control sample of passive block holders, indicating the value of intervention.

II. Data and Overview
A. The Activism Sample
There is no central database of activist hedge funds. We therefore construct an independent
sample based mostly on Schedule 13D filings, the mandatory federal securities law filings under Section
13(d) of the 1934 Exchange Act that investors must file with the SEC within ten days of acquiring more
than 5% of any class of securities of a publicly traded company if they have an interest in influencing the
management of the company. Congress intended that the filing of a Schedule 13D would notify the
market that the filer might seek to force changes or seek control at target companies.2 In particular, Item
4 of Schedule 13D requires the filer to declare its reasons for acquiring the shares, particularly if the
intention is to engage in merger and acquisition activity, seek a sale of any material amount of the issuer’s
assets, pursue a change in its capitalization or dividend policy, or propose other types of corporate
changes.
Our data collection is based on a three-step procedure. As a first step, we purchased a list of all
Schedule 13D filers during the period 2001-2006 from LiveEdgar, a for-profit organization that offers
access to SEC filings in a user-friendly format. There are a total of 11,602 such filers. Based on the
names and the descriptions of the filer type listed in Item 2 (“Identity and Background”) of the Schedule
13D, we were able to manually filter out the following filer types: banks, brokerage companies, regular
corporations, foreign institutions, individuals, insurance companies, pension funds, trusts, and other
miscellaneous categories. The remaining filers are hedge funds, private equity/venture capital funds, and
some non-fund investment advisors, categories that are often difficult to distinguish. We searched the
internet for the websites of these filers and news articles describing them. In most cases, we were able to
classify these remaining entities into hedge funds and non-hedge funds using web-based information. For
the remaining cases, we called the filers using the phone numbers listed on their schedule 13D filings and
asked for their self-classification.

From this set we further excluded filers that made only one

Schedule13D filing during the whole 2001-2006 sample period and whose disclosures in Item 4 of the
Schedule 13D filing indicated no explicit purpose (see more details about this in Section II. C.1.). This
preliminary step led to a list including 311 hedge funds.

9

In our second step, we gathered all of the Schedule 13D filings and their amendments made by
the 311 hedge funds on the SEC’s EDGAR filing system. Filers are required to disclose the number of
shares and their percentage share ownership, plus all of their purchases and sales within the previous 60
days. Exchange traded derivatives must be disclosed, but equity swaps and other OTC derivatives
generally do not have to be fully disclosed (Hu and Black, 2006a). After the initial Schedule 13D filing,
the fund is required to “promptly” file an amendment to its Schedule13D (Schedule 13D/A) if there is any
“material” change in its position. Thus, the Schedule 13D filings provide information about the filing
date, ownership and its changes, cost of purchase, and the stated purpose of the filing (from Item 4
“Purpose of Transaction”). Based on the information from Item 4, we further excluded events where: (1)
the primary purpose of the filer is to be involved in the bankruptcy reorganization or the financing of a
distressed firm; (2) the primary purpose of the filer is to engage in a merger and acquisition related risk
arbitrage where the filer takes long position in the target stock (and possibly short positions in the
acquirer’s stock) before a pending acquisition deal in order to exploit any price convergence when the
takeover goes through; and (3) the target is a closed-end fund or other non-regular corporation. We
excluded (1) and (2) since the motive and consequence of risk arbitrage and distress financing are quite
different from those of shareholder activism. Filter (3) was applied since the primary interest of this study
is hedge fund activism in regular corporations (see Bradley, Brav, Goldstein, and Jiang (2007) for an
exclusive study on shareholder activism in closed-end funds). After imposing these additional screens the
number of hedge funds was reduced to 236, with a total number of 1,032 events. Although mutual funds
are not technically hedge funds because they are required to register under the Investment Company Act
of 1940, we made one exception, Franklin Mutual Advisers, because it behaves like the other activist
funds in our sample.
In the third and final step, we conducted extensive news searches in Factiva using the hedge fund
and target company names as key words. From the news articles, we gathered information which was not
available on the 13Ds, such as the hedge fund’s motive, the target’s response, and the development and
resolution of the events. When necessary, we retrieved additional SEC filings, such as the Schedule 14A
to obtain additional information.3
Given the amount of capital required to acquire a 5% stake in a large-cap company, the Schedule
13D-based search could bias the sample toward smaller targets. At very large firms, some hedge funds
have engaged in activism with less than a 5% stake in the target company. A notable example is Carl
Icahn’s investment in Time Warner, where Icahn was a 2.6% shareholder of Time Warner when he
launched activism against the firm in 2005. To incorporate activism events that were not accompanied by
13D filings, we collected information about such events through news searches (as in the “third step”

10

described above) for our sample hedge funds, plus a general search using various combinations of “hedge
fund” and “activism” as key words.
We further checked the completeness of the news search using the Thomson Financial Form 13F
database. Specifically, for those funds in our sample for which we could find their Form 13F filings, we
retrieved all companies whose shares were held by our sample hedge funds during the 2001-2005 period,
and conducted individual targeted news searches if (i) the company’s market value was more than $1
billion, and (ii) the ownership by the hedge fund was greater than 2%.4 This process generated 27 events
that were not accompanied by 13D filings because they involved ownership levels in the target that were
below the 5% threshold. Not surprisingly, target companies involved in these events tend to be larger and
more mature (lower growth and higher cash flows). Though our sample might not be exhaustive of all
potential hedge fund activist events without Schedule 13D filings during our sample period, we believe it
includes all the important events because any events we missed must also have failed to catch the
attention of the media and therefore are unlikely to be economically meaningful.
With the addition of these events our final sample consists of 236 activist hedge funds and 1,059
hedge fund-target pairs for the period 2001-2006, involving 882 unique target companies (97% of them
have matched permanent numbers in CRSP, 82% of which have complete data for return analyses). The
target companies span 183 (respectively, 62) three-digit (respectively, two-digit) SIC code industries.
The number of funds and events increase almost monotonically during this time period, from 39 (97)
funds (events) in 2001 to 126 (252) funds (events) in 2006. By compiling our own database, we avoid
some problems associated with survivorship bias, reporting selection bias, and backfill, which are
prevalent among other hedge fund databases.5

B. Two Examples of Activist Events
To give the reader a flavor of the boundaries of the activism that we focus on in this paper, we
provide a description of two such cases. The first event illustrates a non-confrontational approach that
management subsequently embraced and executed. The second event illustrates an initially hostile
approach that management ultimately accommodated. Our sample includes these two categories as well
as activist events that remained hostile throughout.

B.1. MLF Investments and Alloy, Inc.
On November 19, 2003, MLF Investments LLC filed a Schedule 13D indicating that it owned
5.8% of Alloy, Inc., a direct marketing and retail company. MLF Investments had purchased those shares
at an average cost of approximately $5.17 per share. In the Schedule 13D, MLF Investments and its
affiliates (the “Reporting Persons”) stated that:

11

“The Reporting Persons support management’s restructuring efforts to the extent they are
focused on maximizing shareholder value. In that regard, the Reporting Persons believe that a
spin-off of the Company’s “merchandise business” into a separate publicly traded entity should
enable the businesses to focus on their core competencies and perform better. In our experience
this increased focus should lead to an increase in the valuation of each of the two businesses.
The Reporting Persons plan to talk to management and the Board of Directors of the Company
regarding its plan to maximize shareholder value and assist them if wanted or needed.”
During the (-20,+20) event window surrounding the announcement of Schedule 13D filing date, Alloy’s
share price increased in value by approximately 11%.
As stated in the Schedule 13D, representatives of MLF Investments initiated discussions with
management and the board.

After one year, Alloy appointed Matthew Feshbach, the founder and

managing partner of MLF Investments, to its board. After several additional months of discussions, on
May 31, 2005, Alloy announced plans to spin off its “merchandise business,” and its shares closed on a
split adjusted basis at $8.39. MLF Investments had continuously increased its stake in Alloy from time to
time since its initial Schedule 13D filing. By September 7, 2005, MLF Investments owned 16.1% of the
company. The fund executed a smooth exit from its investment in March 2007.

B.2. Pirate Capital and James River Coal
On November 17, 2005, Pirate Capital filed a Schedule 13D file with the SEC indicating a 7.9%
stake in James River Coal Co. Pirate purchased its stake at an average price of about $33.45. On
February 10, 2006, Pirate Capital sent a letter to the target stating that:
“We have become increasingly concerned that James River's valuation is being discounted
relative to its peers - a discrepancy we attribute to management's failure to articulate to the
investment community a cohesive operational and financial strategy, together with its
demonstrated inability to meet earnings consensus…We attribute these missteps to CEO Peter
Socha's lack of operating experience within the coal industry and to the Company's lack of a
CFO…We are now convinced that the Company's senior management team is simply not up to
the task of achieving such goals. As a result, we demand that (i) the Board immediately retain
an investment banking firm to pursue strategic alternatives, including the potential sale of the
Company and (ii) immediately redeem the shareholder rights plan effective no later than March
15, 2006.”
On March 10, 2006, management announced that they had hired Morgan Stanley to “look at
alternatives and potential bidders.” James River Coal’s stock price rose more than 10% to $39.77 on that
day. From late April to July, Pirate demanded that its representatives be placed on James River’s board

12

and that the company’s board of directors repeal several anti-takeover by-laws. On August 22, 2006,
Pirate and James River Coal announced that they entered into settlement agreement whereby three
representatives from Pirate were elected to James River Coal’s board, and in turn, Pirate dropped the
proposals it had submitted to shareholders for the upcoming annual shareholder meeting. The stock price
was essentially flat on that day.

C. Summary of Events
C.1. Hedge Funds’ Stated Objectives
Table 1 Panel A summarizes the stated objectives that the activist funds provide when they
announce activism in their target firms as well as the associated success (and partial success) rates. The
motives behind hedge fund activism can be classified into five major categories, each containing multiple
sub-categories. The objectives, except the first, are not mutually exclusive as one activist event can target
multiple issues. An event is classified as successful if the hedge fund achieves its main stated goal, or as
a partial success if the hedge fund and the company reach some settlement through negotiation that
partially meets the fund’s original goal.
The first objective includes events in which the hedge fund believes that the company is
undervalued and/or that the fund can help the manager maximize shareholder value. No further activism
to achieve specific goals (beyond communicating with the management) has been launched before the end
of 2006. This category represents 48.3% of the full sample. All events in this objective involve only
communication with the management without more aggressive tactics.
In the second category we include activism targeting firms’ payout policy and capital structure.
In the first subgroup, the hedge fund proposes changes geared towards the reduction of excess cash,
increase in firm leverage, or higher payouts to shareholders using either dividends or stock repurchase.
The second subgroup involves suggested equity issuance, such as stopping or reducing seasoned equity
offerings by the target companies or proposed debt restructuring.
In the third set of events we include activism targeting business strategy. There are five subgroups
that fall within this group. The first subgroup implicates general operational efficiency, cost cutting, and
tax efficiency-enhancing proposals. Second, hedge funds target companies that they believe lack business
focus or exhibit excess diversification, and propose spinning-off some divisions or refocusing the
business strategy. Third, hedge funds attempt to play a role in a pending merger or acquisition, generally
by asking for a better price where the firm is the target of the acquisition or by trying to stop the pending
acquisition.6 Finally, hedge funds may make proposals for the target company to better pursue its growth
strategy.

13

The fourth category of activist events involves activism urging the sale of the target. In this
category, hedge funds attempt to force a sale of the target company, either to a third party (in the majority
of the cases), or they try to takeover the company themselves. Partial success in this group means that the
firm remains independent, but agrees to undergo major changes. Last, in the fifth set of events we include
activism targeting firm governance. There are multiple subgroups, including efforts to: rescind takeover
defenses (most often to declassify the boards or to revoke poison pills); to oust the CEO or chairman; to
challenge board independence and fair representation; to demand more information disclosure and
question potential fraud; and to challenge the level or the pay-for-performance sensitivity of executive
compensation.
The success rate of activism across the objectives varies widely. Aggregated across both hostile
and non-hostile events, hedge funds achieve success in 40.6% of the cases, which we define as achieving
their main stated goals. In 25.8% of the cases, we observe a partial success where hedge funds gain major
concessions from their targets, in 21.4% of the cases the fund fails its mission, or withdraws from the
target. The remainder 7.4% of the cases in our sample are either still ongoing toward the end of the
sample collection (March 2007), or we cannot find any mention of their outcome in any news service or
securities law filings.7 Given that hedge funds achieve success, or partial success, in nearly two-thirds of
the cases, despite the targets’ strong tendency to resist, this success rate is impressive and comparable to
that reported by Ikenberry and Lakonishok (1993) on outcomes of proxy contests for corporate control
from 1968 to 1988. One reason for their high success rate might be that Institutional Shareholder
Services (ISS), a third party voting advisory service catering to institutional investors, recommended a
vote in favor of hedge funds in 23 of the 32 media reported cases.
Panel A provides additional detail about specific subcategories that illustrates the considerable
heterogeneity in success rates. For example, hedge funds succeed in attaining their goal of removing a
CEO in 39.7% of such events. We find that all such events are hostile and that in 29.3% of the time
hedge funds achieve partial success, involving the CEO staying on but agreeing to adopt policies along
the lines proposed by the fund. In comparison, hedge funds succeed in rescinding takeover defenses only
21.7% of the times, albeit with partial success in another 43.3% of events. The last row of Table 1 Panel
A summarizes events in categories (2) through (5) in which a goal is explicitly stated. Hostile events are
associated with lower success rates but higher partial success rates, indicating that a negotiated
compromise is a more likely outcome for events with open confrontation. Overall, the total success rates
(including partial success) between the hostile and non-hostile samples are not significantly different
(68.1 vs. 64.4%).
Obviously, tactics represent endogenous decisions by the hedge funds, so that this evidence is
best interpreted as an equilibrium outcome reflecting that hostile tactics are most likely adopted when the

14

perceived resistance from the target management is higher. On the other hand, given that hostile tactics
(such as proxy contests) are more costly to the hedge fund compared to less aggressive ones (such as a
shareholder proposal), the lack of difference in success rate in equilibrium implies that hedge funds
should only resort to aggressive approaches when the potential benefits from activism are also higher.
Finally, the likelihood of success is slightly negatively correlated with target size, and positively
correlated with hedge funds’ ownership stake. The full sample correlation coefficients are -0.03 and 0.10,
respectively.

C.2. Hedge Fund Tactics and Target Responses
Panel B of Table 1 provides a breakdown of the hedge funds tactics for events in our sample,
from the least to most aggressive.

Such information is often available in Item 4 (“Purpose of

Transaction”) of the initial Schedule 13D, but this source is not complete and so we supplement it using
news searches. The first tactic category includes events in which the hedge fund states that it intends to
communicate with the board/management on a regular basis with the goal of enhancing shareholder
value. Almost all filings in this group do not reveal (to the public) any specific agenda by the hedge fund.
Such cases comprise 48.3% of the sample. Category two includes events in which the hedge fund seeks
board representation without a proxy contest or confrontation with the existing management/board. The
third tactic group hosts cases where the hedge fund makes formal shareholder proposals, or publicly
criticizes the company and demands change. Next, category four includes events in which the hedge fund
threatens to wage a proxy fight in order to gain board representation, or to sue the company for breach of
duty, etc. The fifth category is assigned to events in which the hedge fund launches a proxy contest in
order to replace the board. The remaining two tactic groups include events in which the hedge fund sues
the company and the hedge fund intends to take control of the company, e.g., with a take-over bid. Since
activist events can fall within more than one of these tactic categories, the percentages in the second
through seventh categories sum to more than 51.7% (the remaining 48.3% fall in the first group). For
example, if a fund launches a proxy contest to replace the board, and files suit against them as well, we
would place the event within both the fifth and sixth tactic categories.
The subcategory of “hostile” activist events involves events in fourth through seventh tactic
categories, or those that fall in the third category but include a stated hostile intention (such as to oust the
CEO). By this criterion, there are a total of 295 such hostile cases (27.9% of the total sample). We
determine whether an event is hostile or not based on information that is made public while the activism
is ongoing through its resolution. In later analysis, we further distinguish events that began as hostile and
those where hedge funds switched to hostile tactics in the course of the event. Such conditioning is

15

necessary for matching stock returns to the information available at the time that activism has become
public information.
[Insert Table 1 here.]
In addition to the tactics described above, we note that hedge funds frequently work together. In
approximately 22.1% of the events, multiple hedge funds that are not directly affiliated report as one
group in their Schedule 13D filing. This does not include cases where multiple funds follow one another
in investing in targeted companies, forming a so-called “wolf pack,” that acts together to force the target
to address their demands, but which does not require filing a Schedule 13D together because their actions
do not rise to the level of “group” activity under securities laws. Nor does it include other hedge funds or
investors that “cascade” into the target firm’s stock after the lead hedge fund’s Schedule 13D filing to free
ride on the lead hedge fund’s intervention effort. Compared to single-fund-filing cases, multiple-fundfiling groups tend to take higher stakes in the target (13.7% vs. 11.9%) and are more likely to employ
hostile tactics (41.9% vs. 23.9%). The latter difference is statistically significant at 5%.
The large heterogeneity in fund tactics raises the question as to how target companies respond to
this rich set of tactics and the resulting equilibrium outcomes. Given that events in the first tactic
category described above (“communication” between the hedge funds and the target company
management) do not provide public and explicit agendas, it is difficult to classify target company
responses and outcomes. In the remaining 548 events hedge funds state some explicit agenda, such as
demanding higher payouts or more scrutiny on executive compensation. We track the evolution of these
events using information from both news search and subsequent securities law filings (such as Schedule
13D/A and Schedule 14A).8 Over the course of the hedge fund’s intervention, target companies choose to
accommodate the activists 29.7% of the time, to negotiate 29.1% of the time, to fight/resist 41.3% of the
time. While there is no striking relation between hedge funds’ stated objectives and target response, the
“fight” response is more likely as they face a hostile tactic (the correlation is 0.35).

C.3. Hedge Funds’ Investment in Target Companies
How large are hedge fund investments in their target companies? We report the size of the
activists’ stakes in their target firms, both in dollar value (at cost), and as a percentage of outstanding
shares of the target in Panel A of Table 2. Information in the columns denoted “Initial” comes from the
associated Schedule 13D filing. For the non-Schedule 13D events, the information is collected from the
news media or Form 13Fs. The columns labeled “Max. Ownership” report the maximum stake that the
funds accumulated in the targets, which is retrieved from the subsequent amendments to the 13D filings,
or Schedule 13D/A. We record the highest holdings by the filing party in the target. The last four
columns in Panel A present this information for the subsample of hostile events.

16

[Insert Table 2 here.]
The median initial (maximum) percentage stake that a hedge fund takes in the target is 6.3%
(9.1%), and the median dollar stake, at cost, is 11.9 (15.8) million in 2006-constant dollars. We note that
the hostile cases exhibit greater capital commitments in the target firm by the hedge fund at the higher
percentiles of the sample. For example, at the 95th percentile, an initial stake in a hostile event requires
nearly twice as much capital as an intervention in the full sample.
An important pattern emerging from Table 2 is that hedge fund activism does not generally
involve control blocks of stock. The inter-quartile of hedge funds’ initial stakes is from 5.4% to 8.8%,
and the 75th percentile of the maximum ownership falls below 15%. Even at the 95th percentile of the
sample, hedge funds hold 31.5% in the target companies, considerably lower than the majority
requirement. It therefore appears that the activist hedge funds are generally not interested in taking
control of the company. Rather, they hope to facilitate value-enhancing changes in the target company as
minority shareholders without taking control of the target firm’s board of directors. For example, there
are 140 proxy contests in our sample, in most of which (including the James River Coal example in
Section II.B.2 above) hedge funds seek to elect a short slate of directors rather than seeking majority
control of the board. Moreover, the funds seek to accomplish their objectives by coordinating with, and
obtaining support from, other shareholders, especially on issues that require a shareholder vote. These
features distinguish the activist hedge funds from the corporate raiders in the 1980s who sought to obtain
buy total control to internalize all the benefits from their intervention.
The stock holdings reported are taken from the Schedule 13D or from information in news
reporting. As Hu and Black (2006a) note, certain types of derivative investments (e.g., OTC derivatives
and short positions) might not need full public disclosure. In approximately 16.1% of the cases in our
sample, hedge funds report derivative positions in the target companies, with the most common types
being option/warrants, convertible debt and convertible preferred.

They are mostly securities with

embedded option features issued by the target companies, and not derivatives representing countervailing
positions that offset the economic interests from the long positions (Martin and Partnoy (2005)). We
believe, however, that this information is likely to be incomplete given that disclosure of the latter is not
mandatory. As a sensitivity check for potential countervailing positions that hedge funds might take, we
match our sample firms to the monthly short interest data from the NYSE and NASDAQ for the period
2001-2005. We find virtually no change in the short interest (as a proportion of the outstanding shares) of
the target companies in our sample around the Schedule 13D filing time—the median short interest ratio
remains at about 1.0% to 1.2% during the 13 month period centered on the filing month.
Finally, activist hedge funds’ investment horizons have been an issue of contention. Critics
accuse activist funds of aiming for short-term gains at the expense of long-term shareholder value (Kahan

17

and Rock, 2006). We use multiple sources to determine the “exit date” when the hedge fund significantly
reduces its investment in the target company. First, we retrieve from the Thomson Financial data base
Form 13F data for the first quarter-end when the hedge fund’s holding in the target company drops below
1% or $1 million. When such information is not available, we use the hedge fund’s last 13D/A filing date
to determine when their ownership in the target firm drops below the 5% disclosure threshold.9 Finally,
we supplement this information with a news search for other forms of exits (such as a liquidation of the
company). These combined data sources allow us to form estimates of the hedge funds’ investment
duration after the filing of their initial Schedule 13D. However, our sample period is from 2001-2006 so
that many recent events are still unresolved as of the close of data collection in March 2007. As a result,
we are unable to find the exit information for about 47.6% of the cases in the full sample.
Table 2, Panel B, lists the breakdown of various forms of hedge fund exit, indicating that selling
in the open market is the predominant form, accounting for two-thirds of all completed cases. If we focus
on the sub-sample of the completed events where the fund is reported to have significantly reduced its
ownership level, Table 2 Panel C shows that the median duration from the first Schedule 13D filing to
“exit” is 369 days. The 25th and 75th percentile figures for the full sample are 169 days and 647 days.
Furthermore, events that are initiated with hostility exhibit somewhat shorter investment horizons than the
non-hostile ones (319 days vs. 375 days at the median).10
Needless to say, focusing on the events in which hedge funds have exited grossly under-estimates
the unconditional duration of hedge funds’ investment in the target companies. To try to get a better
handle on this value, we offer two estimates for the all-sample investment horizon. First, we conduct a
regression of completed investment duration on a set of variables including dummies for the five stated
objectives (as defined in Table 1), lagged market cap, book-to-market, and ROA of the target companies,
and a dummy variable for whether the events were initiated with hostility. We then apply the estimated
coefficients to the ongoing cases (and cases without exit information) to calculate predicted durations.
Incorporating the imputed duration values for the ongoing cases the full sample median duration becomes
556 days, and the 25th (75th) percentile value is 317 (981). For our second estimate, we use the Form 13F
holdings data from the Thomson Financial to impute the turnover rate of an institutional investor’s overall
portfolio from quarterly changes. Our sample hedge funds’ median annualized equity long position
turnover rate is 55%, implying an average holding period of 22 months. Overall, the data indicates that
the hedge funds’ investment horizon is not as short as suggested by critics of hedge fund activism.

III. Characteristics of Target Companies

18

What type of companies do activist hedge funds target? The first three columns of Table 3 report
summary statistics of the target firms’ characteristics in the year before they are targeted. We utilize this
data to examine how the target companies compare to their peers using two different approaches. First,
we compare the characteristics of the target firms with a set of industry/size/book-to-market matched
firms. These comparisons are reported in the next three columns of Table 3. When we describe target
firms by size (market capitalization), the size matching criterion is dropped and when we describe target
firms by book-to-market and Q, the book-to-market matching is dropped. A comparison of targets with
only industry-matched firms yields qualitatively similar results.
Second, in Table 4, we present probit regressions to identify the partial effects of all covariates.
The set of matched firms for each target company are assigned from the same year, same SIC 3-digit
industry, and same Fama & French 10 x 10 size and book-to-market sorted portfolios. If the narrow
criteria yield no match, we relax the industry group to SIC 2-digit, and the size/book-to-market to 5x5
sorted portfolios. The average difference between a sample firm i and matched firms is calculated as
follows:

Dif i = X i −

1 m
∑Xj ,
m j =1

where X is defined as a characteristic variable, and firms j=1,…,m are from the match group. We report
in column (4) of Table 3

1 n
∑ Difi , where i=1,…,n is index for our sample target firms. To assess the
n i =1

statistical significance of the differences, column (5) presents the t-statistics associated with the difference
statistics, and column (6) provides the Wilcoxon signed rank statistic, which is asymptotically normal, for
the difference in medians. Given that the distributions of many of the variables display fat tails and
skewness, the Wilcoxon statistic, which is less influenced by extreme observations, serves as a robustness
check.
[Insert Table 3 here.]
Finally, the last five columns of Table 3 list the proportion of the target firms that fall into each of
the quintile groups formed by the CRSP/Compustat firms. This sorting is unconditional and is meant to
offer an overview of where the target firms populate in the universe of U.S. public firms.
In discussing the statistics, we say that the difference between the target and its peers is
significant if both the t-statistic and the Wilcoxon statistic indicate a two-tail significance of at least 10%,
and at least one of the two statistics is significant at less than the 5% level. The summary statistics on
market value (MV) indicate that the target firms are under-represented in the top size quintile, but are
otherwise roughly evenly distributed among the other four size quintiles. This is consistent with the idea
that hedge funds are less likely to target larger firms because the fund would need to invest a large

19

amount of capital in order to amass a meaningful stake. Acquiring a sizeable stake in a top size-quintile
firm might introduce an inordinate amount of idiosyncratic portfolio risk even for an activist hedge fund.
In order to test this hypothesis, we collected fund size information from WRDS CISDM hedge fund data
base, news articles, and hedge fund web sites. We were able to assemble this data for about 52% of our
sample. The median size of the hedge funds in our sample is $793 million, and the 25th and 75th
percentile values are $278 and $4,446 million. The top quintile CRSP target firms have an average
(median) market value of $15.2 ($5.7) billion in 2005. Hence, a 5% stake in the average (median) top
quintile target firm implies an investment of $760 ($285) million dollars, a considerable amount relative
to the size of the typical sample funds.
The significant difference between target and matching firms’ valuation variables, book-tomarket (BM, defined as (book value of equity/market value of equity)), and Q (defined as (book value of
debt + market value of equity)/(book value of debt + book value of equity)), indicates that the activist
hedge funds are “value investors.” Unconditionally, about one-third of the target firms appear in the top
(bottom) quintile sorted by BM (Q). In fact, in about two-thirds of our cases, the hedge fund explicitly
states that it believes the target is undervalued. To the extent that activist hedge funds seek to profit from
the improvement of the target companies’ operations and strategies, it is also important that target
companies’ stock prices have yet to reflect the potential for improvement.
In terms of operational performance, measured by sales growth (Growth) and return on assets
(ROA, defined as the ratio of EBITDA to lagged assets), target firms tend to be low growth firms, but are
significantly more profitable. Profitability is higher when measured both in terms of return on assets,
which is 2.0 percentage point higher than the matched peers, and cash flows generated (CF, defined as
(net income + depreciation and amortization), scaled by lagged assets, which is 1.8 percentage points
higher than the peers. The stock performance of the target firms also lags considerably behind the market.
This evidence is important as it sets apart hedge fund activism from earlier institutional activism targeting
poorly performing companies (Gillan and Starks (2007)).
The next set of variables relate to targets’ capital structure. Target firms have slightly higher
leverage: the average book value debt-to-capital ratio (LEV) is about 2.8 percentage points higher than
that of the matching firms. The cash-to-asset ratio (CASH) is lower than that of the peers. Target firms’
dividend payout is significantly lower relative to its peers, measured by both the dividend yield (DIVYLD,
defined as (common dividend)/(market value of common stocks)) and payout ratio (PAYOUT, defined as
the total dividend payments divided by net income before extraordinary items). Using total payout yield
(defined as the ratio of the sum of dividend and share repurchase to the market value of common stocks)
delivers qualitatively similar results.

20

On the investment side, target firms spend significantly less than their peers on research and
development, scaled by lagged assets (RND).

Target firms also have slightly lower Herfindahl-

Hirschman indices (HHI, measured as the HHI index of sales in different business segments as reported
by the Compustat). This indicates that they are more diversified.
Next, we turn to governance characteristics. Measured by the Gompers, Ishii, and Metric (“GIM”,
2003) governance index (GINDEX), target firms tend to have slightly more takeover defenses. The
GINDEX tracks 24 takeover defenses that firms could adopt, as well as the laws of the state in which the
targets are incorporated. Our target firms have on average 0.4 more defenses than comparable firms.
Furthermore, a greater percentage of targeted firms have a large number of such defenses: in the GIM
data set that covers approximately 2,000 firms in 2004, 8.8% of the firms have 13 or more takeover
defenses, whereas in our sample of target firms, the same measure shows that in 14.9% of target firms
exhibit this level of defenses.
Targets also have significantly higher institutional ownership and analyst coverage: an average of
44.7% institutional ownership (8.3 percentage points higher than comparable firms) and an average of 4.4
analysts covering each firm (0.5 more than peer firms).

Both institutional ownership and analyst

coverage are indications of the sophistication of shareholder clientele. This is an important factor for
activist hedge funds because they often rely on the understanding and support of fellow shareholders in
order to implement the changes, given their minority stakes in the target firms (see Table 2). Since the
latter two variables could also proxy for trading liquidity, we use a direct trading liquidity measure, the
Amihud

(2002)

illiquidity

measure.

It

is

defined

as

the

yearly

average

of

1000 |Return|/(Dollar Trading Volume) , using daily data.11 We find that target companies exhibit higher
trading liquidity than otherwise comparable firms. Higher liquidity makes it easier for the activists to
accumulate a stake within a short period of time. However, given that large-cap companies are underrepresented, target firms are no more liquid relative to the universe of firms. In fact, target firms
concentrate in the third quintile sorted by liquidity.
While Table 3 compares target firms with their peers along single dimensions, Table 4 reports
results from probit multivariate regressions to assess the marginal effect of each covariate.

The

unconditional probability for a firm being targeted by an activist hedge fund is 1.8% during our sample
period. Since the GINDEX (retrieved from the WRDS IRRC data base) variable is only available for
about one-third of firms on Compustat, the regressions with GINDEX are reported separately. Further,
the subsample of firms that have GINDEX information is over-represented by large firms and firms with
higher institutional ownership, and the results should therefore be interpreted accordingly. In an untabulated sensitivity check, we replace Q with B/M, ROA and CF, LEV with CASH, and DIVYIELD with

PAYOUT and find qualitatively similar results.

21

[Insert Table 4 here.]
The results in Table 4 are consistent with those in Table 3. In particular, they confirm the two
patterns emerging from the previous analysis in this section. First, activist hedge funds resemble value
investors. A one standard deviation decrease in Q is associated with a 0.49 percentage point increase in
the probability of being targeted, other things equal. Relative to the unconditional probability of being
targeted of 1.8%, the marginal probabilities are substantial. This suggests that activist hedge funds are
seeking to identify undervalued companies where the potential for improvement is high. The hedge
funds’ stated goals, as reflected in their Schedule 13D filings, are consistent with this conclusion. Indeed,
even the names of the activist hedge funds suggest that the funds and their investors believe they are value
investors. A large fraction of the hedge fund names in our sample include words or phrases that connote
value investing, such as “value,” “contrarian,” and “distressed.”
Second, the potential problems that hedge funds identify at targeted firms are more often issues
that are generalizable to all firms, such as changes in governance and payout policies, rather than issues
that are specific to one or a small number of target firms, such as slipping sales of a particular product.
Targeted firms do not seem to suffer from serious operational difficulties. They are actually profitable
and enjoy handsome cash flows, as indicated by the significant coefficient on ROA in the full sample
regressions (and in untabulated results, a significant coefficient on CF). The potential problems that these
companies face are likely related to the agency problem of free cash flows, such as relatively low
dividend yield and diversifying investments (as indicated by HHI) that might not be in the best interest of
shareholders. Governance issues, including rescinding takeover defenses, ousting CEOs, promoting board
independence, and curtailing executive compensation, are also commonly cited as reasons for activism.
These targeting patterns seem sensible given that many of the hedge funds in our sample are not
experts in the specific business of their target firms. Focusing on issues that are generalizable to other
potential target firms helps hedge funds lower the marginal cost of launching activism at a new company
(Black, 1990). A second reason to avoid targeting an idiosyncratic firm issue is offered by Kahn and
Winton (1998). They predict that investors are more likely to intervene in well-understood firms or
industries so that the market can rapidly appreciate the effects of an intervention. Hedge funds should
avoid “opaque” and complicated businesses, such as those with high levels of R&D to avoid delays in the
resolution in the market price of the intervention’s impact.

Our data offer some support to this

hypothesis. As indicated in Table 3, hedge funds tend to avoid high-tech firms (as proxied by RND, the
ratio of R&D to assets) among the universe of public firms. We do not wish to over-interpret this relation
because the effect is not significant in Table 4 when we control for the full set covariates. We note,
however, that book-to-market ratio, growth, cash flows, and HHI index of business segments are also
indirect proxies for the target firms’ high-technology intensity, and they are all statistically significant in

22

predicting activist targeting. The combined evidence is therefore consistent with the predictions in Black
(1990) and Kahn and Winton (1998).

IV. Stock Returns and Hedge Fund Activism

The fundamental question for hedge fund activism is whether it achieves its stated goal of
creating value for shareholders. In our first attempt to address this question, we examine stock market
returns, both short-term announcement event-day returns and the long-run returns.

This analysis

addresses the question how the market perceives the effect of hedge fund activism on shareholder value
and whether the long-run measures are consistent with the market’s perception.

A. Event-Day Returns and Trading Around the Filing of Schedule 13Ds
We adopt both short and long event windows around the filing of a Schedule 13D. Figure 1 plots
the average buy-and-hold return, in excess of the buy-and-hold return on the value weighted
NYSE/AMEX/NASDAQ index from CRSP, from 20 days prior to the Schedule 13D filing date to 20
days afterwards. There is a run up of about 3.2% between 10 days to one day prior to filing. The filing
day and the following day see a jump of about 2.0%. Afterwards the abnormal return keeps trending up
to a total 7.2% in twenty days. In the full sample, 62% of the events see positive abnormal returns in the (20, 20) window: the 25th, 50th, and 75th percentile values are -5.3%, 4.6%, and 17.3%, respectively.
[Insert Figure 1 here.]
Some hedge funds file a Schedule 13D after publicly announcing their activist intent (at a lower
ownership stake), while other hedge funds launch aggressive activism only after they have filed a
Schedule 13D. In such cases, the Schedule 13D filing date might not be an accurate proxy for the event
date when activism becomes first publicly known. As a sensitivity check, we focus on a subsample of
246 events for which the time of the 13D filing coincides with the first public announcement of activism
in which a hedge fund describes a new and explicit agenda in the Schedule 13D beyond a general
statement of maximizing shareholder value on the filing. The average buy-and-hold return of this sample
(not plotted) displays a very similar pattern to that of Figure 1, although the magnitude is higher. The
average (median) abnormal return during the (-20, 20) window is 8.4% (5.6%).
Figure 1 also includes the average abnormal share turnover over the event window. We measure
“normal” turnover over the (-100, -40) window preceding the Schedule 13D filing date. The spike in
abnormal trading volume, defined as the percentage increase in the share turnover rate, does not occur on
the event day but rather during the ten-day period before the filing. This pattern is consistent with the fact
that investors are required to file Schedule 13D no later than ten days after the transaction that causes

23

them to go over the 5% level of stockholdings in the target firm so that the filing fund can engage in
additional buying prior to the public announcement of their activism. There are, however, two alternative
explanations for the abnormal share turnover in the days preceding the filing date. The first is “wolf
pack” investing, in which several hedge funds, which do not formally coordinate, buy into the target
firm;12 and the other is “tipping,” where the filing hedge fund reveals its intention to a small number of
investors before the public filing in exchange for reciprocation of other favors. Given the informal and
secretive nature of such communication, our data does not allow for a formal testing of these two
explanations.13
We emphasize that market reactions are not an unbiased estimate of expected benefits from
successful activism. If prices were to adjust fully to the ex-post effect of successful hedge fund activism,
hedge funds, in the absence of reputation concerns and trading liquidity constraints, would have no
incentive to continue with costly intervention. Rather, market prices adjust to a level reflecting the
expected benefit of intervention adjusted for the equilibrium probability that the hedge fund continues
with its activism and succeeds. Hence, the market reaction necessarily underestimates the value of expost successful activism (e.g., Bond, Goldstein, and Prescott (2007)). Moreover, the raw correlation
between ex post success and announcement returns turns out to be low -- it is 0.04.

This low

predictability of success, from the perspective of outside market participants, is consistent with the
theoretical models of Maug (1998) and Cornelli and Li (2002) and the empirical evidence in Bradley,
Brav, Goldstein, and Jiang (2007). In such models, there cannot be an equilibrium with both the outside
market participants predicting the outcome (due to intervention) and the activist carrying out the action as
expected.

B. Cross-sectional variation of abnormal returns
Equally important as the average abnormal return is its cross-sectional variation because it
reflects the heterogeneity in market perceptions regarding the expected value generated by activism.
Table 5 reports the results from regressions exploring the cross-sectional variation in market response to
shareholder activism. The dependent variable is the abnormal return in the (-20, 20) window around the
filing of the Schedule 13D.

We include as regressors dummy variables for the five broad stated

objectives classified in Section C.2, MV (the logarithm of market capitalization), LTDebt (the ratio of
long-term debt to sum of debt and market value of equity), Pre-13F (a dummy variable equal to one if the
hedge fund revealed a significant stake, defined as more than 1% or $ 1 million, in the target company in
its Form 13F filings before the 13D filing), and AvgPre-Returns (the average (-20,20) window abnormal
return for all the previous events led by the same hedge fund). We provide the motivation for the

24

construction and interpretation of these variables when we discuss the results in Sections IV.B through
IV.D.
In order to facilitate the interpretation of the coefficients on the dummy variables, all non-dummy
covariates are expressed as the deviation from the mean, and the intercept of the regression is suppressed
(because of the full span of the dummy variables). As a result, all the coefficients on the stated-objective
dummy variables can be interpreted as the average partial effect on abnormal returns of one particular
group of events, assuming that the target firms are of average characteristics.
[Insert Table 5 here.]
Column (1) shows how event-window abnormal returns vary with the stated goals of the hedge
funds and other covariates in the full sample, while columns (2) and (3) provide estimates for the same
relation separately for hostile and non-hostile subsamples, where hostility is measured at the time of the
initial filing of Schedule 13D (or the first announcement of activism for events without 13D filings) to
reflect the information available to market participants in the announcement window. Turning first to
column 1, we find that activism aimed at the sale of the target generates the highest abnormal return, with
an average abnormal return of 8.54% (t = 4.10). Business strategy related activism also generates a
significant abnormal return of 5.95% (t = 3.08). An announcement of a hedge fund’s intention to
intervene without revealing any specific goals generates an average return of 6.28% (t = 3.70). On the
other hand, though activism targeting capital structure and governance issues also generates small positive
average returns (1.47% and 1.73%), these estimates are not statistically distinguishable from zero. The
latter estimates are consistent with the weak return effects documented by prior literature concerning
traditional governance-oriented activism (with the exception of Bizjak and Marquette (1998) who
document some value improvement from shareholder resolutions to rescind poison pills). The weak
returns associated with traditional institutional activism reflect those institutions relatively small
investments in targeted firms (unlike hedge funds), and that those institutions seek changes that do not
seem to be important to firm value.
We further note that the hedge funds’ stated objectives are not mutually exclusive (except the
“General” category). For example, if a hedge fund targets business strategy issues but also posts a
governance agenda, the total return is expected to be 7.68% (= 5.95% + 1.73%).
Finally, to examine the importance of a hedge fund’s track record to market reactions, we use the
average announcement returns from the hedge fund’s previous events as a proxy for the fund’s historical
success. The coefficient is positive but economically small: a one percentage point higher in return track
record is associated with 0.08 percentage point higher in the current announcement return, but the
statistical significance does not reach the conventional levels.

25

Columns (2) to (3) of Table 5 separate events by whether hedge funds initiate activism with
hostile tactics (see definition in Section II.C.2). Given that market reaction is based on the information
available to it at the time of the event, it is important to classify events based on their nature at initiation.
Among all events that turn out to be hostile, about three-quarters begin with full-blown hostility, and the
rest become hostile after the targeted firms’ management resists or ignores the hedge funds’ friendly
proposals. The two columns taken together indicate that the market seems to believe that hostile tactics
are more effective in dealing with firm sales and governance issues, but not as effective for business
strategy and capital structure issues. However, these differences are not statistically significant due to the
large standard errors.

C. Returns to Hedge Funds Investment
The positive average abnormal returns at the announcement of activism indicate that activism is
potentially a profitable investment strategy for the hedge funds. To provide a more comprehensive
description of the returns accruing to hedge funds, we compute the deal holding period returns, that is, the
buy-and-hold stock return between the month prior to the 13D filing date and the exit date using a
combination of information from 13F and 13D filings, as defined in Section II.C.3, or December 31, 2006
if there is no information about the exit by that time. The summary statistics are reported in Panel A of
Table 6.
The average (median) raw deal holding period return is 42.0% (18.1%). On an annualized basis,
the same figure becomes 33.0% (14.9%). The average remains significantly (at less than the 1% level)
positive after market and size adjustments. The sample annualized average return is 14.3% higher than
the value-weighted portfolio returns of stocks in the same size decile. However, the median deal holding
period return is no different from the size-adjusted benchmark. While it is apparent that the positive
average returns are attributed to the right tail of the distribution, they are not driven by a few extreme
outliers. The sample mean statistics remain qualitatively the same if we winsorize data at the 1%
extremes. To summarize, while the typical deal does not earn abnormal returns, the upper 25% of the
deals offer much more upside than the corresponding downside of the lower quartile.
[Insert Table 6 here.]

D. Alternative Hypotheses
The large average abnormal stock return around the Schedule 13D filing date is consistent with
the view that the market anticipates that hedge funds’ activism will result in actual value improvement.
However, it is possible that the reactions that we document are explained by alternative causes, which we
now explore in detail.

26

D.1. Market Over-Reaction and Temporary Price Impact
One potential explanation for the high abnormal return is a temporary price impact caused by
buying pressure from the filing hedge fund or other hedge funds. As shown by Figure 1, the run up in
price around the announcement window is accompanied by abnormally high trading volume as well. If
the price impact is purely temporary and reflects a trading friction rather than information about
prospective value changes, we should observe negative abnormal returns shortly after the event. This
turns out not to be the case. Figure 1 shows no reversal after 20 days (when the abnormal turnover
declines to close to zero), and the pattern persists if we extend the window for another 20 days.
We conduct a more formal long-term return analysis using calendar-time portfolio regressions
around the Schedule 13D filing date. For example, we form a (-3,-1) portfolio by buying all firms that
will be targeted by a hedge fund in three months’ time, and the firms are held for three months before
selling. Similarly, we form a (1,3) portfolio by buying all firms that were targeted by hedge funds one
month earlier, and these firms are held for three months before selling. For each such portfolio we
estimate a regression of the portfolio excess returns on the Fama and French RMRF, SMB, and HML
factors and the momentum factor, MOM. 14 We then focus on the regression intercept, the alpha, as
evidence for possible mean reversion in prices. Clearly, all portfolios in the pre-event windows do not
represent a tradable strategy. They are presented for an ex post analysis of the stock return patterns of the
companies in the pre-targeting period. The results are reported in Panel B and C of Table 6, using fourfactor models with equal and value-weighting of firms’ returns.
The factor loadings in both Panels B and C indicate that targeted companies co-move with small
value firms, evidence that is consistent with the results presented in Section III and Table 4. Targeted
firms have a slightly sub-par pre-event stock performance. However, the negative alphas are only
significant in the value-weighting specification, implying that it takes larger stock return
underperformance for large-cap firms to be targeted.

The event (Schedule 13D filing or the first

announcement of activism for non-13D events) month and the three months afterwards see quite robust
positive abnormal returns. With equal weighting, the event month and (1,3) window alpha is 5.10% (t =
6.72) and 1.09% (t = 2.01). The same numbers for value weights are much lower (1.62% and 0.14%) and
are not significant; presumably the larger firms in the sample do not receive as favorable response from
the market as the smaller targets. Abnormal returns are higher using the CAPM model (not tabulated),
consistent with the size and value premium.
Most importantly, the alphas are positive and revert to close-to-zero during the nine months after
the 13D filings in both models. This evidence clearly refutes the market over-reaction hypothesis for up
to a year post-event.

27

D.2. Stock Picking versus Value Improvement
It is possible that hedge fund activists simply identify undervalued companies, but do not add to
firms’ fundamental value. According to this hypothesis, the positive market reaction is due to the
announcement of new information that a hedge fund has identified an undervalued company, not to the
announcement that a hedge fund has committed to intervene to add value to the company. Given the
strong evidence in Tables 3 and 4 that hedge funds target “value” firms (i.e., firms with high book-tomarket, or low Q), and the tendency of event-firm portfolios to load positively on the HML factor (Table
6), it is plausible that obtaining the value return is indeed part of the activist hedge funds’ strategy.
However, we believe that the market response to activist hedge funds’ targeting goes beyond the
information effect of stock picking. We present several tests which all support this conclusion. First, we
find that when hedge funds launch activism with hostile tactics, the abnormal return is on average 3.9%
higher than non-hostile targeting (significant at the 5% level). Hostile deals, by definition, are resisted by
the managers, and therefore the changes would be unlikely to happen were it not for hedge funds’
persistence. Earlier in Section IV.A., we have argued that upon announcement of activism market prices
adjust to a level reflecting the benefit of successful intervention adjusted for the equilibrium probability
that the hedge fund continues with activism and succeeds. Accordingly, the hedge fund will only
intervene when the probability-adjusted benefit is greater than the cost of intervention. Since in our
sample hostility is not associated with higher probability of success (including partial success) in
equilibrium (the correlation is close to zero, 0.02), and it is reasonable to believe that hostile deals involve
higher costs of intervention (such as the costs of a proxy solicitation), these two facts imply that the
expected benefit when a hedge fund successfully carries out a hostile deal should be higher than a nonhostile one.

As a result, the more favorable market response indicates that the perceived value

improvement comes from imposed changes, rather than a mere discovery of undervaluation due to
mispricing.
Second, we examine the abnormal announcement returns of the subsample of events in which the
hedge fund had revealed a significant ownership position (more than 1% or $1 million) in a Form 13F
filing before its Schedule 13D filing. To make sure that this block ownership information was known to
the market, we require the portfolio date of the Form 13F filing to be at least 60 days before the Schedule
13D filing, taking into account the allowed 45-day delay between the quarter-end Form 13F filing. This
subsample of 312 events is interesting because the new information in the subsequent 13D filing is not
just about stock picking, but about intervention. In Table 5, the coefficient on the dummy variable, Pre-

13F, indicating a revealed significant ownership by the same hedge fund in the most recent Form 13F, is
indeed negative at -3.27 percentage points (t-statistic = -2.10). What is important is that this sub-sample

28

of events still show significant announcement window returns (3.96%, t-statistic = 3.01) even though
there is little additional information regarding stock picking revealed in the Schedule 13D filing. 15
Needless to say, the significant ownership revealed through earlier Form 13F filings might also invite
speculation about hedge fund intervention down the road, and therefore reduce the “surprise” of the later
Schedule 13D filing. If this is the case, then the coefficient on Pre-13F should be less negative in the
sub-sample of hostile events where there is stronger new information about intervention. This is indeed
the case. Columns (2) and (3) of Table 5 indicate that the coefficient on Pre-13F is much more negative
in the sub-sample of non-hostile events. In fact, the coefficient in the hostile sub-sample is statistically
insignificant.
Third, we find that the abnormal returns displayed upon hedge funds’ exit show different patterns,
contingent on whether their stated agenda has been adequately carried out. Figure 2 plots the average
abnormal buy-and-hold return around the last Schedule 13D/A file date (indicating divestment by the
hedge fund to below the 5% ownership level), which we use as a proxy for the time of exit. We plot two
event-time series. The full sample series indicates positive returns leading up to the filing date, and
roughly flat afterwards. Trading volume tends to spike during the ten-day window leading up to the
filing. This pattern indicates that hedge funds tend to exit after positive stock returns, and their exit
overall does not have positive or negative impact on the stock price. On the other hand, if a hedge fund
fails or withdraws from ongoing activism (because the prospect of success is poor) and exits, the market
response is generally quite negative. The average (-20, 20) window abnormal return is about -4%, about
8 percentage points lower than the full sample average (the difference is significant at the 5% level).
These patterns are inconsistent with a simple stock picking story because that hypothesis does not predict
these varying abnormal return patterns.
Fourth, if activist hedge funds were merely picking stocks, they should sell immediately after the
market price reflects their finding that a company’s shares were undervalued. A “pure” stock picker
would capture this incremental value, and then employ its capital in other undervalued stock trades. A
quick exit should not reveal negative information to the market either, if stock picking is considered to be
the sole motive. However, activist hedge funds do not sell immediately after they file a Schedule 13D. To
the contrary, these funds continue to hold their positions for relatively long periods of time (See Table 2,
Panel C). Moreover, we find that in 94% of the cases in which the hedge fund had prescribed an explicit
agenda, they exit only after a resolution of their stated agenda. This pattern is consistent with the view
that the positive abnormal return at the time of the hedge funds’ Schedule 13D filing reflects the market
expectation of hedge fund intervention, and it would be difficult for any hedge fund to exit at a high price
without taking action. Given that the hedge fund needs to file an amendment to their Schedule 13D
reflecting any material change in their position, including a reduction of their position to below 5%,

29

“promptly” after the change (some law firms recommend filing within one business day), they would
have very little time to sell their block before making a public statement. Moreover, the typical target
firm’s stock has a turnover rate of about 0.4% a day and targeted firms tend to be mid- and small-cap
stocks, making a quick private exit very difficult to execute. As a consequence, hedge funds can only cash
out a large portion of their position at a price that no longer reflects the potential of value improvement if
they exit before carrying out the stated agenda.
We conclude this subsection by noting that it is possible that activist hedge funds are merely
stock pickers, but use long holding periods to sustain an (unwarranted) reputation for activism.
Alternatively, it is possible that activist hedge funds are merely stock pickers, but believe (incorrectly)
that they are activists and can add additional value after the filing of a Schedule 13D. We cannot rule out
these possibilities, although we believe that a more plausible interpretation is that only a small portion of
the positive abnormal return might be due to stock picking.

D.3. Value Expropriation from Other Stakeholders
Shareholders are by no means the only party potentially affected by hedge fund activism. If
other stakeholders are impacted, then some of the positive stock market reaction to activism might reflect
wealth redistribution from other stakeholders.

We consider two key stakeholders for our analysis:

creditors and executives. We focus on these two groups mostly due to data availability and testability.
We find no evidence that activist hedge funds redistribute wealth from creditors to shareholders, but we
do find evidence of redistribution from managers to shareholders.
If shareholders of the target company gain at the expense of the creditors, then the gain should be
higher in companies with higher levels of leverage, especially long-term debt. Short-term debt will be
renewed to reflect the new conditions within a year, and hence should not decline significantly in value.
Long-term creditors, in the absence of renegotiation before the contracting term ends, would therefore
bear the cost of potential expropriation by shareholders. Given that we are interested in the effect of such
expropriation on the market value of equity, the relevant leverage ratio should be based on market-value
(rather than book-value). In Table 5, the corresponding covariate, LTDebt, is the ratio of long-term debt
to the market value of capital (proxied by the sum of all debt and the market value of equity). The
coefficient is far from significant statistically, and its economic magnitude is small as well. Every
percentage point increase in the long-term leverage is associated with a decrease of 0.03 percentage point
in announcement return (t-statistic = -0.72).
In fact, the cleanest test of whether the gains to shareholders come at the expense of creditors is
based on the subsample of 174 targets without any long-term debt. Obviously, shareholders cannot
expropriate gains from long-term creditors if there are no such creditors. These firms actually see a

30

somewhat higher announcement window returns (9.46%) than those that have some long term debt
(7.21%, the difference is not statistically significant). Overall, it is unlikely that the expropriation of
bondholders is a meaningful source of shareholder gain in the wake of announced activism.16
To examine the effect of hedge fund activism on target firm executives, we retrieve information
on several measures of compensation from the Compustat Executive Compensation database. The results
are reported in Table 7 Panel A. It shows the average differences of the listed variables between the
targeted companies and their matched companies (from the same year, same SIC two-digit industry, and
same Fama-French 5x5 size and book-to-market sorted portfolios), and the associated t-statistics. In the
first column of Panel A, the variable is total CEO compensation including option grants (“TDC1” by
ExecuComp), which is an ex ante measure of total CEO compensation. In the event year, the target
companies’ CEOs’ compensation is on average $914,000 higher (t = 2.06) than the equivalent measure of
CEO compensation at peer companies in the same industry that are of similar size and stock valuation.
We note that the compensation award levels are fixed in the year prior to the year in which they are paid.
One year after hedge fund intervention, CEO pay at targeted firms is not distinguishable from peer levels.
A related pattern is reflected in the increase in pay-for-performance sensitivity, measured as the
percentage of CEO actual pay (including option exercise) that comes from equity-based incentives, shown
in the third column of Panel A: targeted firms experience significant increases in pay-for-performance
during the event year and the year afterwards.
[Insert Table 7 here.]
Accompanying the change in the level and composition of CEO pay is an increase in the CEO
turnover rate. We classify an event as a CEO turnover if the name of the CEO of a company is different
from that in the prior year. In the entire ExecuComp database, the CEO turnover rate for the 2001-2006
time period is 12.6%. Our sample companies have a slightly higher CEO turnover rate than their peer
companies during the year before targeting, although the difference is not statistically significant. One
year after targeting, however, the turnover rate at the targeted companies is 12.4 percentage points higher
than that of their matched peers (t = 2.85). This change in the turnover rate from the pre-event year is
significant at 5%. We note that the estimates used here understate CEO turnover since they do not
include CEO departures as a result of liquidation or sale of the company.
The combined effects of activism on CEO pay and turnover suggest that we should examine
whether the CEO pay cut is a result of replacing the old CEO with a lower-paid new one, or a cut in the
pay of the incumbent. We find that conditional on the subsample of surviving CEOs, the top executive’s
pay at sample firms was $436,000 higher than that of their peers on average, but was cut to $709,000
below their peer level a year afterwards. Comparing those numbers with the full sample, it seems that

31

CEO turnover is positively associated with pre-activism compensation levels, but (ex post) surviving
CEOs received about the same level of pay cut on average.
Overall, hedge funds seem to have been successful in curtailing executive compensation,
enhancing pay-for-performance, and ousting CEOs. The direct impact of these actions on shareholder
gains can be considerable. Panel A of Table 7 shows that relative to the matched sample CEO pay is
lower by about $1 million annually after activism. If all of the top executives combined are paid $5
million less for five years post-intervention due to activism, and this value goes to shareholders (assuming
away tax issues, etc.), then the present value of such an income stream is on the order of magnitude of
$20 million (using a 10% discount rate), which is a significant portion of the market capitalization of a
typical targeted company (the average market capitalization of our sample firms is $706 million). We
also note that the change in CEO compensation and turnover is further evidence supporting the
“intervention” against the “stock picking” hypothesis since it is highly improbable that such changes
would occur absent intervention.
We have so far identified several potential explanations concerning the stock market reaction to
hedge fund activism. The evidence in this section is consistent with the idea that the revision in equity
prices around the filing of the Schedule 13Ds reflects the positive effect of activism on firm value. We
now turn to a direct test and ask whether hedge fund activism affects target firms’ ex-post operating
performance.

V. Ex Post Performance Analysis

Following the literature, we use ROA (return on assets, defined as EBITDA/lagged Assets) and
operating profit margins (defined as EBITDA/Sales) as measures of operating profitability. These two
measures are largely unaffected by non-operational factors such as leverage and taxes. Panel B of Table 7
reports target firms’ average performance in excess of that of their matched sample from two years before
the activism, to two years later. All variables discussed in this section were retrieved from Compustat,
and updated to 2006.
We adopt two criteria to form a matched sample. With the first we match, year-by-year, along
the industry/size/book-to-market dimensions as in Table 3. With the second matching procedure, we
adopt the beginning-of-period performance matching as proposed by Barber and Lyon (1996). More
specifically, a matched group for each target firm consists of firms from the same SIC two-digit industry
(relaxed to one-digit if there is no match) whose operating performance measure falls between 90% and
110% of that of the target in year (t-2). Target firms’ performance in excess of the first type of
benchmark indicates how these firms fare relative to their comparables at each point of time. The second

32

type of benchmark serves to show how target firms go along a potentially different path of operational
improvement from non-target firms that had almost identical initial performance.
Panel B shows that targeted companies, overall, have higher ROA and operating profit margin
(OPM) than their industry/size/book-to-market matched peers. Their performance experiences a dip
during the event year, and roughly recovers to the pre-event level one year after the event. The recovery
continues into a significant improvement in year (t+2). ROA (OPM) is about 0.9-1.5 (4.7-5.8) percentage
points higher than the pre-event levels, where the OPM change is significant at the 5% level. Both
matching approaches yield a similar time-series pattern up to a level shift since the (t-2)-performancematching, by construction, starts with near-zero excess performance.
In comparison, the change in payout policies occurs sooner after the hedge fund’s intervention.
Given that activist hedge funds often demand both increased dividends and share repurchases, a total
payout measure is suitable for our analysis. We define the total payout yield as (dividend + share
repurchase)/(lagged market value of equity). The ratio represents the return from all payouts that an
equity investor obtains from shares purchased at the market price. Panel C of Table 7 shows that payout
increases during the year of intervention, and peaks in the year afterwards.

Year (t-2) sees some

reversion, but remains above benchmark levels. Compared to the level in the pre-event year, target firms’
average total payout yield increases by 0.3-0.5 percentage points in the post-event year, and the change is
significant at 5% using the year-by-year peer match.17 Moreover, if we count activism that results in a
target’s liquidation, sale, or being taken private, as a complete payout to existing shareholders, then the
post-activism payout ratio is much higher than the conventional payout measures indicate.
Panel C traces out the change in leverage. There is some evidence of re-levering after the event,
but the magnitude is relatively small. In two years, the leverage ratio (by book values) on average
increases by 1.3-1.4 percentage points compared to the level during the year before the event, out of an
average leverage ratio of 34.8% for target companies (before the event).

Furthermore, the correlation

between dividend increase and leverage increase is weak (0.04). The moderate increase in leverage and
its weak correlation with dividends are consistent with the analysis in Section III.D.3 showing that
expropriation of creditors is unlikely to be a significant source of shareholder gain.
Needless to say, ex post performance analysis can only be performed on firms that remain in the
sample in post-event years and hence the challenge is to address the potentially non-random attrition of
target firms. If we define attrition as the state where a target firm, previously covered by Compustat,
ceases to be so in the year after the event, then our sample attrition rate (for the 2001-2005 sub-sample
where attrition could be identified with Compustat data updated to 2006) is 18.2%. Moreover, the
attrition rate is considerably higher among hostile events, especially for events where the hedge fund
seeks the sale of the firm (31.0%). If attrition to a large extent represents a successful outcome of hedge

33

fund activism because it facilitates efficient reallocation of capital, the resulting absence of the firm from
the ex-post performance analysis can potentially induce a negative bias to inferences about firm
performance.
The sample of surviving firms can help to test whether activist hedge funds indeed help create
shareholder value through efficient reallocation of capital. We calculate the correlation between the
target firms’ industry-adjusted assets change and their industry-adjusted ROA change in each of the two
years after intervention (not tabulated). Specifically, for each target firm, we compute the percentage
change in assets after activism: (Assets(t+1)-Assets(t-1))/Assets(t-1) and (Assets(t+2)-Assets(t1))/Assets(t-1). We adjust these changes with the SIC three-digit industry level assets change during the
same time period. We find that the correlation to industry-adjusted ROA change is 0.23 for the period
from event-year (t-1) to (t+1), and 0.25 over the period from event-year (t-1) to (t+2). This evidence
indicates that hedge fund activism is associated with a significant reallocation of capital to more efficient
uses. Likewise, selective sale of target firms could be an even stronger form of capital reallocation.
Moreover, hedge fund activism’s direct effects on capital reallocation at target firms are supplemented by
its indirect “disciplinary” impact on other firms that are perceived as potential targets.
Finally, we look at analysts’ forecasts as an additional sensitivity check. If activism improves
firm performance, this effect should be reflected in forward-looking measures such as analyst forecasts.
To this end, we retrieve analyst stock forecasts data from the I/B/E/S and calculate, month by month, the
proportion of all forecasts on the target firms that are upgrades (or downgrades) relative to the previous
forecasts issues by the same analysts. During the 12 months before activism is announced, we find that
there were more stock downgrades than upgrades among the (future) targets. In particular, downgrades
outnumber upgrades by 54% to 22% during the three months leading to the event (where the remainder
represents recommendations that maintain at the previous level). During the event month and the two
subsequent months, we see a significant decrease (increase) in downgrades (upgrades), and the overall
analyst sentiment reverts to neutral thereafter (at 35% each). Therefore, analysts perceive improved
prospects for the target firms subsequent to the hedge fund intervention. If one believes that stock
analysts have at least as much information as hedge funds about the firms’ prospects without hedge fund
intervention, then the change in analyst sentiment represents analysts’ updating their views about sample
firms’ prospects due to hedge fund intervention.
To summarize, we find that hedge fund activism is associated with an almost immediate increase
in payout, heightened discipline on the CEO and an improvement in analyst sentiment. On the other
hand, the improvement in operating performance takes longer to manifest itself. In a recent paper,
Cronqvist and Fahlenbrach (2007) show that there is large heterogeneity across different blockholders in
their effect on corporate decisions along similar dimensions, but the average effect is small and

34

insignificant (see also Bhagat, Black and Blair (2004)).

Our study identifies one small group of

blockholders--activist hedge funds--that are effective at influencing corporate policies.

VI. Conclusion

This paper is the first to examine hedge fund activism using a large-scale sample over the time
period 2001 through 2006. We document the heterogeneity in hedge fund objectives and tactics and how
these factors relate to target firm responses. The positive market reaction to hedge fund intervention that
we find is consistent with the improved post-intervention target performance, the effect of the
interventions on CEO pay/turnover and changes in payout policy. Importantly, we show that the extent of
hostility matters to market reaction and outcomes, while the level of hostility among hedge fund activists
is not as high as some have claimed.
Our findings are consistent with the view that informed shareholder monitoring can reduce
agency costs at targeted firms. Hedge fund activists are a particularly nimble kind of shareholder, use a
wide variety of tactics to pursue their objectives, and are largely successful even though they hold
relatively small stakes.

Sometimes hedge fund activists benefit from friendly interactions with

management (and in this way resemble large block holders), but other times they are openly
confrontational with target boards when they perceive them as entrenched. Unlike traditional institutional
investors, hedge fund managers have very strong personal financial incentives to increase the value of
their portfolio firms, and do not face the regulatory or political barriers that limit the effectiveness of these
other investors.
Although there is a large cross-sectional variation, hedge fund activism generates value on
average, not because activists are good stock pickers, but because they credibly commit upfront to
intervene at target firms on behalf of shareholders, and then follow through on their commitments. Thus,
hedge fund activism can be viewed as a new middle ground between internal monitoring by large
shareholders and external monitoring by corporate raiders. The benefit from their activism goes beyond
the improved performance and stock prices at the actual target companies. The presence of these hedge
funds and their potential for intervention exert a disciplinary pressure on the management of public firms
to put shareholder value as a priority.
Finally, the abnormal positive returns to hedge fund activism appear to be consistent with the
early arbitrage profits that hedge funds have previously captured using other strategies. During our sixyear sample period, hedge fund activism becomes increasingly common, and, not surprisingly, the return
to activism, measured as the average abnormal returns at the filing of Schedule 13D, has dropped
monotonically from 15.9% in 2001 to 3.4% in 2006. If activism is viewed as another form of arbitrage,

35

then it is likely that the abnormal returns associated with hedge fund activism will decline, or even
disappear, as more funds chase after fewer attractive targets, and as the market incorporates the potential
for investor intervention and improvement into security prices. Both effects suggest that decreasing
returns to activists do not necessarily imply reduced benefits for shareholders from activism. Hedge fund
activism might remain a staple of corporate governance, but at a lower equilibrium level of profitability.

36

References
Admati, Anat R. and Pfleiderer, Paul C., 2005, The 'Wall Street Walk' as a Form of Shareholder
Activism, Stanford Law and Economics Olin Working Paper.
Amihud, Yakov, 2002, Illiquidity and Stock Returns: Cross-Section and Time-Series Effects, Journal of

Financial Markets 5, 31-56.
Barber, Brad and John Lyon, 1996, Detecting Abnormal Operating Performance: The Empirical Power
and Specification of Test Statistics, Journal of Financial Economics 41, 359–99.
Barber, Brad M., 2006, Monitoring the Monitor: Evaluating CalPERS' Shareholder Activism, Working
Paper.
Becht, Marco, Julian Franks, Colin Mayer, and Stefano Rossi, 2006, Returns to Shareholder Activism:
Evidence from a Clinical Study of the Hermes UK Focus Fund, London School of Business Working
Paper.
Bethel, Jennifer, Julia Liebeskind, and Tim Opler, 1998, Block Share Purchases and Corporate
performance, Journal of Finance 53, 605-634.
Bhagat, Sanjai, Bernard S. Black and Margaret M. Blair, 2004, Relational Investing and Firm
Performance, Journal of Financial Research 27, 1-30.
Bizjak, John, and Christopher Marquette, 1998, Are Shareholder Proposals All Bark and No Bite?
Evidence from Shareholder Resolutions to Rescind Poison Pills, Journal of Financial and

Quantitative Analysis 33, 499-521.
Black, Bernard S., 1990, Shareholder Passivity Reexamined, Michigan Law Review 89, 520-608.
Black, Bernard S., 1998, Shareholder activism and corporate governance in the United States, in Peter
Newman, ed., The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics and the Law.
Bond, Philip, Itay Goldstein, and Edward Simpson Prescott, 2007, Market Based Regulation and the
Informational Content of Prices, working paper, University of Pennsylvania.
Bradley, Michael, Alon Brav, Itay Goldstein and Wei Jiang, 2007, Shareholder Activism and Price
Dynamics: Evidence from Closed-End Funds, Duke University, University of Pennsylvania, and
Columbia University Working paper.
Bratton, William W., 2006, Hedge Funds and Governance Targets, Working paper.

37

Carleton, Willard T., James M. Nelson, and Michael S. Weisbach, 1998, The influence of institutions on
corporate governance through private negotiations: Evidence from TIAA-CREF, Journal of Finance
53, 1335-1362.
Clifford, Chris, 2007, Value Creation or Destruction: Hedge Funds as Shareholder Activists, working
paper, Arizona State University.
Cornelli, Francesca and David D. Li, 2002, Risk Arbitrage in Takeovers, Review of Financial Studies, 15,
837-868.
Cremers, Martijn, Vinay Nair, and Chenyang Wei, 2006, Governance Mechanisms and Bond Prices,

Review of Financial Studies, forthcoming.
Cronqvist, Henrik, and Rudiger Fahlenbrach, 2007, Large Shareholders and Corporate Policies, working
paper, Ohio State University.
Del Guercio, Diane, Laura Wallis, and Tracie Woidtke, 2006, Do Board Members Pay Attention When
Institutional Investors 'Just Vote No'? CEO and Director Turnover Associated with Shareholder
Activism, Working paper.
Del Guercio, Diane, and Jennifer Hawkins, 1999, The Motivation and Impact of Pension Fund Activism,"

Journal of Financial Economics 52, 293-340.
Gillan, Stuart, and Laura Starks, 2000, Corporate Governance Proposals and Shareholder Activism: The
Role of Institutional Investors, Journal of Financial Economics 57, 275-305.
Gillan, Stuart, and Laura Starks, 2007, The Evolution of Shareholder Activism in the United States,

Journal of Applied Corporate Finance 19(1), 55-73.
Gompers, Paul, Joy Ishii, and Andrew Metrick, 2003, Corporate Governance and Equity Prices, The

Quarterly Journal of Economics 118, 107-155.
Hasbrouck, Joel, 2006, Trading costs and returns for us equities: Estimating effective costs from daily
data, Working Paper, New York University.
Hu, Henry T.C. and Bernard Black, 2006a, Empty Voting and Hidden (Morphable) Ownership:
Taxonomy, Implications and Reforms, Business Lawyer 61, 1011-1070.
Ikenberry, David and Josef Lakonishok, 1993, Corporate Governance Through the Proxy Contest:
Evidence and Implications, Journal of Business 66, 405-435.
Kahan, Marcel and Edward Rock, 2006, Hedge Funds in Corporate Governance and Corporate Control,
New York University working paper.

38

Kahn, Charles, and Andrew Winton, 1998, Ownership Structure, Speculation, and Shareholder
Intervention, Journal of Finance 53, 99-129.
Karpoff, Jonathan M., 2001, The Impact of Shareholder Activism on Target Companies: A Survey of
Empirical Findings, Working Paper.
Karpoff, Jonathan M., Paul H. Malatesta, and Ralph A. Walkling, 1996, Corporate governance and
shareholder initiatives: Empirical evidence, Journal of Financial Economics 42, 365-395.
Klein, April, and Emanuel Zur, 2006, Hedge Fund Activism, Working Paper, New York University.
Maug, Ernst, 1998, Large Shareholders as Monitors: Is There a Trade-Off between Liquidity and
Control?, Journal of Finance 53, 65-98.
Martin, Shaun and Frank Partnoy, 2005, Encumbered Shares, Illinois Law Review, 3, 775-813.
Partnoy, Frank and Randall Thomas, 2006, Gap Filling, Hedge Funds, and Financial Innovation, Working
Paper, Brookings Institution Press.
Rock, Edward, 1992, The Logic and (Uncertain) Significance of Institutional Shareholder Activism,

Georgetown Law Review 79, 445-506.
Romano, Roberta, 1993, Public pension fund activism in corporate governance reconsidered, Columbia

Law Review 93, 795-853.
Romano, Roberta, 2001, Less is More: Making Institutional Investor Activism a Valuable Mechanism of
Corporate Governance, Yale Journal of Regulation 18, 174-251.
Smith, Michael P., 1996, Shareholder activism by institutional investors: Evidence from CalPERS,

Journal of Finance 51, 227-252.
Wahal, Sunil, 1996, Pension fund activism and firm performance, Journal of Financial and Quantitative

Analysis 31, 1-23.

39

1

See http://www.connectlive.com/events/sechedgefunds/

2

In contrast, passive institutional investors that acquire more than 5%, but less than 10%, of the company's stock

and do not intend to seek to influence control at the target company, but are merely investing in the ordinary course
of business, file a Schedule 13G within 45 days of the end of the calendar year in which they crossed this ownership
threshold. Those passive investors accumulating more than 10% of the stock must file within ten days after the end
of the first month in which they exceed 10%. Alternatively, any person that would be otherwise obligated to file a
Schedule 13D may file a Schedule 13G if they do not intend to attempt to change control of the issuer and do not
hold more than 20% of the issuer's stock. If they elect this option, then they must file within ten days of crossing the
5% threshold. Typically, the filing of a Schedule 13G does not foreshadow an activist event. However, if an
institutional investor changes its initial passive purpose and decides to become active, it would need to file a
Schedule 13D to announce this shift to the market.
3

At various stages during this process, we have also shown our list of hedge funds to participants in the hedge fund

industry and obtained comments and suggestions for additions or deletions.
4

This restriction was necessary to make the search tractable. Given that the data selection issue of activism

ownership below 5% is likely to be more serious among the top quintile sized firms, we restrict the search to firms
that have market capitalization above $1 billion (about the median market capitalization of NYSE firms covered by
CRSP at the beginning of our sample).
5

Indeed, we find that publicly available databases, such as TASS, CISDM, contain only about a quarter of the

activist hedge funds in our sample.
6

Note that this is different from risk arbitrage where a fund takes long position in the target company of a pending

acquisition deal and perhaps a countervailing short position in the acquirer in order to exploit the price convergence
if the deal goes through. Such cases are excluded from our sample.
7

In computing success and partial success rates we include the 7.4% of the on-going events in the denominator.

Hence, our estimates of success are conservative as we are effectively maintaining that “on-going” implies “less
likely to succeed.”
8

After the initial Schedule 13D filing, the fund is required to file promptly an amended Schedule13D/A if there is

material change in the position or other items (changes of more than 1% are deemed “material”). Schedule
14A contains all of the information that is required to be filed in an issuer's proxy statement that will be mailed to its
shareholders prior to the company's annual shareholders' meeting.
9

If the hedge fund’s stake falls below 5% after the first Schedule 13D filing, the last Schedule 13D/A would reveal

the date, remaining stake, and sometimes sale prices of the transactions that free the hedge fund from future
reporting obligations associated with the 5% or more investment.
10

Since we are trying to assess the correlation between investment horizon and initial conditions, “Hostile (Initial)”

is defined as hostile tactics employed by hedge funds at the initial launching of activism. For events that start as

40

non-confrontational but later switch to hostility the duration is longer because of the hedge funds’ tendency to
persist in their goals.
11

The measure follows the algorithm described in Hasbrouck (2006), and is downloaded from Joel Hasbrouck’s web

site: http://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~jhasbrou/Research/GibbsEstimates2006/Liquidity%20estimates%202006.htm. This
illiquidity measure is denoted “I2” in Hasbrouck (2006).
12

There are open and controversial legal questions about what actions rise to the level of "group" activity under the

securities laws. Hedge funds argue that they are not required to file Schedule 13Ds if they are merely follow-on
investors who take positions after they learn that another hedge fund has acquired a 5% of a target.

Relying on

legal advice that this argument is correct, hedge funds frequently acquire significant stakes in targets within hours of
learning that the initial fund has taken a position. Indeed, the fact that the hedge funds delay investing – even for a
short time – is some evidence that they are not acting together with the initial fund. A counter argument is that
hedge fund networks are sufficiently close that they satisfy the legal definition of a group, even if the funds do not
simultaneously acquire securities. Many defense-side attorneys have argued that the definition of a "group" should
include such funds. As of this time, the legal issue is unresolved, but we note that hedge funds commonly are
confident enough that they will not be classified as a group that they are willing to purchase significant stakes
immediately after another fund files a Schedule 13D.
13

The hedge fund managers that we have spoken deny that they engage in tipping, pointing out that to do so would

drive up their costs of accumulating their stake prior to announcing their activism.
14

We obtain these factor returns and monthly risk-free rates from Ken French’s web site at Dartmouth College.

15

We obtain qualitatively similar results using a 4% ownership as the threshold for the construction of the Pre-13F

variable. To the extent that a 4% stake is not materially different from the 5% 13D threshold in terms of economic
interest, the additional information of 13D filing should be about unexpected intervention rather than stock picking.
16

Cremers, Nair and Wei (2006) show that the relation between shareholder control and bondholder interest is

ambiguous and depends on takeover vulnerability.
17

Hedge funds may also have contributed to dividend increases during the event year. We matched the 128 event-

year dividend increases to the CRSP dividend declaration dates and found that in 15.5% of the cases, all dividends
paid during the year are declared after the activism announcement date; in 56.9% of the events, part of the dividends
paid are declared after activism and the post-event dividend shows an increase over the same quarter last year.

41

Table 1
Summary of Events by Hedge Funds’ Stated Goals
The sample includes 1,059 events. Panel A reports the summary of the events sorted by hedge funds’ stated objective. Columns (1) and (2) report
the number of events, and the percentage among all events, of each category. Columns (3) and (4) list the rate of success (including partial success)
and number of hostile events within each category. Columns (5) to (8) break down each category into hostile and non-hostile events and record
the success and partial success rate within each subcategory. Percentages sum up to more than 100% since one event can have multiple objectives
(The first category and the other four categories are mutually exclusive). An event is classified as successful if the hedge fund achieves its main
stated goal; a partial success if the hedge fund and the company reach some settlement through negotiation that partially meets the fund’s original
goal. Panel B provides information on the tactics undertaken by hedge funds, including a breakdown into five categories and the percent of events
in each category relative to the full sample. Since activist events can fall within more than one category the percentages in categories 2 through 7
sum to more than 51.7% (the remaining 48.3% fall into the first category).

Panel A: Summary of Hedge Funds’ Stated Objectives:
(3)
(1)
(2)
(4)
(5)
Objective categories:

All Events
Num. of % of
%
% Partial
Events Sample Success Success

Num. of
Hostile
Events

(6)
(7)
Hostile Events
% Partial
% Success
Success

(8)
(9)
Non-Hostile Events
% Partial
% Success
Success

511

48.3%

--

--

--

--

--

--

--

-- Excess Cash, under-leverage, dividends/repurchases

134

12.7%

32.0%

32.0%

65

23.1%

47.7%

41.3%

15.9%

-- Equity issuance, restructure debt, recapitalization

65

6.1%

37.3%

35.6%

38

18.4%

50.0%

71.4%

9.5%

-- Operational efficiency

131

12.4%

35.6%

27.6%

63

35.2%

37.0%

36.4%

12.1%

-- Lack of focus, business restructuring and spinning off

96

9.1%

27.8%

38.9%

62

17.7%

51.6%

50.0%

10.7%

-- M&A: as target (against the deal/for better terms)

79

7.5%

36.7%

19.0%

42

33.3%

21.4%

40.5%

16.2%

-- M&A: as acquirer (against the deal/for better terms)

25

2.4%

20.0%

52.0%

22

18.2%

59.1%

33.3%

0.0%

-- Pursue growth strategies

12

1.1%

44.4%

0

--

--

22.2%

22.20%

148

14.0%

37.0%

26.7%

93

30.1%

34.4%

49.1%

13.2%

44

4.2%

43.2%

25.0%

34

38.2%

32.3%

60.0%

0.0%

1. General undervaluation/maximize shareholder value
2. Capital Structure

3. Business Strategy

4. Sale of Target Company
-- Sell company or main assets to a third party
-- Take control/Buyout company and/or take it private

42

5. Governance
-- Rescind takeover defenses

60

5.7%

21.7%

43.3%

43

18.6%

53.5%

29.4%

17.6%

-- Oust CEO, chairman

59

5.6%

39.7%

29.3%

59

39.7%

29.3%

--

--

-- Board independence and fair representation

159

15.0%

34.4%

35.7%

114

31.6%

40.4%

41.9%

23.3%

-- More information disclosure/potential fraud

58

5.5%

42.1%

26.3%

42

38.1%

33.3%

53.8%

6.7%

-- Excess executive compensation/pay for performance

50

4.7%

20.4%

44.9%

38

18.4%

50.0%

27.3%

27.3%

548

51.7%

40.6%

25.8%

286

29.5%

38.6%

53.7%

10.7%

Sum of categories (2) through (5):

Panel B: Summary of Hedge Funds’ Tactics:
Tactic categories:

% of All Events

1. The hedge fund intends to communicate with the board/management on a regular basis with the goal of enhancing shareholder value

48.3%

2. The hedge fund seeks board representation without a proxy contest or confrontation with the existing management/board

11.6%

3. The hedge fund makes formal shareholder proposals, or publicly criticizes the company and demands change

32.0%

4. The hedge fund threatens to wage a proxy fight in order to gain board representation, or to sue the company for breach of duty, etc.

7.6%

5. The hedge fund launches a proxy contest in order to replace the board

13.2%

6. The hedge fund sues the company

5.4%

7. The hedge fund intends to take control of the company, e.g., with a take-over bid

4.2%

43

Table 2
Hedge Funds’ Capital Commitment and Investment Horizon
Panel A provides the size of the hedge funds’ stakes both in terms of dollar values (at cost), and as a
percentage of the outstanding shares of the target companies. We report the 5th, 25th, 50th (median), 75th,
and 95th percentiles of the sample. The “Initial” columns report the stakes that hedge funds take at their
initial 13D filings. The “Max” columns report the maximum reported stakes that the funds accumulated
in the targets as revealed from subsequent 13D/A filings. Panel B gives the breakdown of various forms
of hedge fund exit. Reported in the last row are the percentages of events that have no information about
exit by the end of March 2007. Finally, Panel C lists the length of holding period (in number of days) at
different percentiles of the sample for the sub-sample that has exit information. In each panel, the
statistics for the full sample and the subsample of hostile events are reported separately.

Percentile

Panel A: Capital Commitment (in 2006 constant dollars)
All Events
Hostile Events
Invested Capital
Invested Capital
% Ownership
% Ownership
($ Million)
($ Million)
Initial
Max.
Initial
Max
Initial
Max.
Initial
Max.

5%

0.69

1.0

5.0%

5.0%

1.5

1.9

3.5%

3.6%

25%

3.5

4.6

5.4%

6.5%

4.5

6.8

5.6%

6.9%

50%

11.9

15.8

6.3%

9.1%

14.7

20.45

6.6%

9.5%

75%

40.3

54.6

8.8%

13.2%

44.2

68.8

8.8%

13.0%

95%

186.8

272.5

23.1%

31.5%

321.0

363.8

19.8%

29.5%

Categories
Sold shares on the open market

Panel B: Breakdown of Exit
Hostile
Non-Hostile
26.1%
39.3%

All Events
35.5%

Target company sold

16.2%

6.9%

9.5%

Target company merged into another

9.9%

3.8%

5.5%

Liquidated

1.8%

0.7%

1.0%

Shares sold back to target company

1.8%

0.5%

0.9%

Still holding/no Information

44.1%

48.4%

47.6%

Panel C: Length of Holding Period (#Days) for Completed Spells
Percentile
Hostile (Initial)
Non-Hostile (Initial)

All Events

5%

32

45

43

25%

126

171

169

50%

319

375

369

75%

610

672

647

95%

1,550

1,679

1,649

44

Table 3
Characteristics of Target Companies
This table reports the characteristics of target companies and a comparison to a set of matched companies. The first three columns report the mean,
median, and standard deviation of the characteristic for the target companies. Columns (4) through (6) report the average difference between the
sample firms and the industry/size/book-to-market matched firms, the t-statistic for the average difference, and the Wilcoxon signed rank statistic,
which is asymptotically normal, for the median difference. Size matching is dropped for MV comparison, and book-to-market matching is
dropped for BM and Q analysis. The last five columns list the proportion of target firms that fall into each of the quintile groups formed by the
CRSP/Compustat universe. All variables are retrieved from the year prior to the event year. MV is market capitalization in millions of dollars; Q is
defined as (book value of debt + market value of equity)/(book value of debt + book value of equity); BM is the market to book ratio defined as
(book value of equity/market value of equity); GROWTH is the growth rate of sales over the previous year; ROA is return on assets, defined as
EBITDA/assets (lag); CF is cash flow, defined as (net income + depreciation and amortization)/assets (lag); STKRET is the buy-and-hold return,
in excess of that of the market, during the 12 months before the announced activism; LEV is the book leverage ratio defined as debt/(debt + book
value of equity); CASH is defined as (cash + cash equivalent)/assets; DIVYLD is dividend yield, defined as (common dividend + preferred
dividends)/(market value of common stocks + book value of preferred); PAYOUT is the payout ratio, defined as the total dividend payments
divided by net income before extraordinary items; RND is R&D scaled by lagged assets; HHI, is the Herfindahl-Hirschman index of sales in
different business segments as reported by Compustat; GINDEX is the Gompers, Ishii, and Metric (2003) governance index where high index
values represent lower shareholder rights or higher management entrenchment; INST is the proportion of shares held by institutions; ANALYST is
the number of analysts covering the company from I/B/E/S. The characteristic AMIHUD is the Amihud (2002) illiquidity measure, defined as the
yearly average (using daily data) of 1000 |Return|/(Dollar Trading Volume) .
(1)

(2)
(3)
Summary Statistics

(4)
(5)
(6)
Difference with matched firms

Firm Characteristic

Mean

Median

Std Dev

MV

726.56

160.07

1669.17

-63.54

-1.52

BM

0.773

0.615

0.914

0.081

Q

1.544

1.238

1.007

GROWTH

0.084

0.041

ROA

0.054

CF

0.022

Avg. Diff. t-stat of Diff. Wilcoxon

(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
CRSP/COMPUSTAT quintile breakpoints
% in Q1

% in Q2

% in Q3

% in Q4

% in Q5

-2.05

0.214

0.253

0.239

0.180

0.114

4.28

3.93

0.133

0.143

0.169

0.195

0.360

-0.397

-9.17

-13.19

0.307

0.203

0.209

0.176

0.106

0.357

-0.057

-4.44

-7.72

0.299

0.234

0.194

0.117

0.156

0.085

0.201

0.020

3.12

4.18

0.212

0.178

0.217

0.185

0.208

0.047

0.180

0.018

2.86

3.23

0.231

0.191

0.214

0.195

0.169

45

(1)

(2)
(3)
Summary Statistics

(4)
(5)
(6)
Difference with matched firms

Firm Characteristic

Mean

Median

Std Dev

STKRET

0.195

-0.010

1.200

-0.073

-3.11

LEV

0.348

0.327

0.297

0.028

CASH

0.177

0.088

0.214

DIVYLD

0.007

0.000

PAYOUT

0.296

RND

Avg. Diff. t-stat of Diff. Wilcoxon

(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
CRSP/COMPUSTAT quintile breakpoints
% in Q1

% in Q2

% in Q3

% in Q4

% in Q5

-5.15

0.295

0.160

0.169

0.141

0.234

2.91

1.70

0.196

0.197

0.197

0.207

0.203

-0.026

-3.61

-4.86

0.207

0.178

0.225

0.208

0.183

0.016

-0.001

-2.13

-5.48

-- 0.754 --

0.129

0.118

0.000

0.995

-0.035

-1.81

-4.15

-- 0.720 --

0.161

0.119

0.079

0.029

0.114

-0.010

-2.21

-4.51

0.262

0.210

0.190

0.181

HHI

0.800

1.000

0.251

-0.034

-3.64

-1.93

0.212

0.214

GINDEX

9.005

9.000

2.702

0.353

2.27

2.33

0.176

0.251

0.142

0.210

0.220

ANALYST

4.387

2.000

5.959

0.547

3.01

0.99

0.123

0.156

0.226

0.175

0.320

INST

0.447

0.447

0.274

0.083

9.57

8.82

0.086

0.158

0.409

0.184

0.162

AMIHUD

0.466

0.193

0.699

-0.075

-3.99

-7.65

0.091

0.139

0.434

0.183

0.153

46

0.157

-- 0.594 --

Table 4
Probit Analysis of Targeting
This table reports the effects of covariates on the probability of being targeted by activist hedge funds. The dependent variable is a dummy
variable equal to one if there is hedge fund activism targeting the company during the following year (that is, all covariates are lagged by one year).
All independent variables are as defined in Table 3. In the first column we exclude the variable GINDEX, while in column (2) we include it, to
reflect the significant loss of observations due to the GINDEX data availability. In each column, we report probit coefficients, their t-statistics, and
the marginal probability change induced by a one standard deviation change in the values of the covariates from their respective sample averages.
*
and ** indicate statistical significance at the 10% and 5% levels.
Dependent variable:
Dummy (of being targeted)

Coefficient

(1)
t-statistic

Marg. Prob.

(2)
t-statistic

Marg. Prob.

**

Coefficient

MV

**

-0.08

-7.35

-0.80%

-0.14

-7.04

-1.01%

Q

-0.07**

-4.77

-0.49%

-0.09**

-3.01

-0.56%

GROWTH

**

-0.14

-3.10

-0.23%

-0.10

-1.16

-0.14%

ROA

0.44**

4.30

0.39%

0.33

1.35

0.19%

LEV

-0.02

-0.42

-0.03%

0.06

0.64

0.07%

-0.38%

**

-4.89

-2.69

-0.34%

-0.77

-0.07%

-0.55

-1.12

-0.18%

-0.22**

-3.61

-0.23%

-0.08

-0.84

-0.09%

**

6.12

0.59%

0.05

1.51

0.24%

**

3.34

0.44%

DIVYLD

**

-5.26

-4.57

RND

-0.15

HHI
ANALYST
INST
GINDEX

0.12

**

0.07

3.65

0.12%

0.32

--

--

--

0.02**

2.59

0.28%

--

**

-1.26

-7.04

--

14,758

4.39%

CNST

**

-1.42

-18.59

Num. of obs and Pseudo R-sqr

39,085

2.68%

Percent targeted

1.78%

1.83%

47

Table 5
Relation between Abnormal Return and Type of Activism
The dependent variable is the abnormal return during the (-20,+20) -day window around the Schedule 13D filing (or announced activism for
events with lower than a 5% stake) date. There are five categories, not mutually exclusive, as defined in the Panel B of Table 1. All regressions
control for the size of the target firm, ln(MV), the log of market capitalization. Long term debt, LTDebt, is the ratio of long-term debt to the sum of
debt and market value of equity. Pre-13F is a dummy variable equal to one if the hedge fund had revealed significant ownership (more than 1% or
$1 million) based on its previous 13F filing. Avg Pre-Returns is the average abnormal return from prior events belonging to the same hedge fund
(first timers are coded as zero, the neutral value). All non-dummy variables are expressed as the deviation from the sample average values.
Intercepts are suppressed in columns because of the full span of the dummy variables. The analysis in Column (1) is conducted on the full sample.
Columns (2) and (3) offer the partition of sub-samples of events that are hostile/non-hostile at initiation. All t-statistics adjust for
heteroskedasticity. * and ** indicate statistical significance at the 10% and 5% levels.
Dependent variables:
Announcement window
abnormal returns

(1)
Full Sample
Coefficient
t-statistic

ln(MV)

-1.27%**

-2.39

0.60%

0.50

-1.38%**

-2.09

LTDebt

-2.73%

-0.72

2.70%

0.37

-4.88%

-1.01

Pre-13F

-3.27%**

-2.10

-2.69%

-0.69

-4.43%**

-2.23

Avg Pre-Returns

0.08%

1.36

0.04%

0.28

0.090%

1.34

General

6.28%**

3.70

--

--

6.21%**

3.96

CapStructure

1.47%

0.78

1.23%

0.34

2.54%

1.17

BusStrategy

5.95%**

3.08

3.34%

1.17

8.11%**

3.49

Sale

8.54%**

4.10

10.70%**

3.43

8.33%**

3.15

Gov

1.73%

0.92

4.95%*

1.73

-0.02%

-0.01

Hostile

3.76%*

1.81

--

--

--

--

724

0.032

140

0.072

584

0.029

Nob & R-sqr

(2)
Hostile (Initial)
Coefficient
t-statistic

48

(3)
Non-Hostile (Initial)
Coefficient
t-statistic

Table 6
Long-Term Abnormal Returns Analysis
The table reports statistics on short and long-term abnormal returns associated with hedge fund activism. Panel A reports the average raw and
annualized deal holding period return for the hedge funds in the first two columns. Buy and hold returns are computed beginning in the month
prior to the announced activism through the month in which the funds exits. Exit is defined as the first quarter-end when the 13F filing indicates
that the holding falls below 1% or $1 million, or the last 13D/A filing date indicating that the ownership drops below 5% if there is no 13F
information. If no exit information is available, we assume that the holding lasts till December 2006, the end of our sample. The last two columns
report the annualized holding period return in excess of the market and size-matched decile portfolio returns. Panels B and C report regression
estimates and t-statistics from equal- and value-weighted calendar-time portfolio regressions. “Window” indicates the buying time relative to the
event (hedge fund activism targeting) and the holding period in months. “Alpha” is the estimate of the regression intercept from the factor models.
“Beta(-1)” and “Beta” are the factor loading on the lagged and concurrent market excess return (the Fama and French RMRF). “SMB,” “HML,”
and “MOM” are the estimates of factor loading on the Fama-French size and book-to-market factors, and the Carhart momentum factor. “R2” is
the R-squared from the regressions. * and ** indicate statistical significance at the 10% and 5% levels.
Panel A: Hedge Fund Deal Holding Period Return
Deal Period Raw Return
Annualized Raw Return
Annualized Market Adjusted Annualized Size Adjusted
1%

-0.938

-0.933

-1.017

-1.233

5%

-0.609

-0.607

-0.708

-0.855

25%

-0.068

-0.062

-0.197

-0.250

50%

0.181

0.149

0.042

0.003

75%

0.602

0.411

0.283

0.249

95%

2.372

1.753

1.532

1.459

99%

4.674

4.659

4.393

4.390

Mean

0.420**

0.330**

0.206**

0.143**

Std. Dev.

0.979

1.025

1.004

1.013

P-Val (Mean = 0)

0.00%

0.00%

0.00%

0.01%

49

Window
(months)
(-12,-10)

Panel B: Equal-weight four-factor model
Alpha
Beta(-1)
Beta
SMB
HML
MOM
Estimate t-statistic Estimate t-statistic Estimate t-statistic Estimate t-statistic Estimate t-statistic Estimate t-statistic
-1.023
-1.82
0.123
1.04
0.976**
6.81
0.663**
4.40
0.421**
2.41
-0.278**
-3.14

(-9,-7)

0.283

0.54

0.078

0.67

0.671**

4.94

0.913**

**

**

R2
0.578

1.01

-0.493**

-5.88

0.657

6.15

0.322

*

1.91

**

-0.243

-2.84

0.648

6.69

0.17

(-6,-4)

-0.513

-1.02

0.252

2.27

0.805

6.22

0.851

(-3,-1)

-0.664

-1.30

-0.057

-0.50

0.57**

4.44

0.906**

5.20

0.333*

1.88

-0.164*

-1.79

0.516

Event

5.095**

6.72

0.371**

2.00

0.401*

1.90

0.644**

2.45

0.205

0.72

-0.274*

-1.77

0.302

(1,3)

**

1.23

0.339

**

2.26

0.611

**

3.26

*

1.74

**

-0.609

-4.85

0.540

**

5.24

0.989

**

5.99

0.428

**

2.34

-0.092

-0.84

0.651

5.45

0.655**

3.41

0.387

1.48

-0.163

-1.10

0.599

3.65

**

2.41

0.009

0.03

-0.019

-0.10

0.395

1.093

2.01

0.157
*

1.71

0.727

0.77

0.902**

0.04

**

(4,6)

0.237

0.52

0.195

(7,9)

-0.093

-0.19

0.118

(10,12)

Window
(months)
(-12,-10)

1.124

1.84

0.008

0.602

Panel C: Value-weight four-factor model
Alpha
Beta(-1)
Beta
SMB
HML
MOM
Estimate t-statistic Estimate t-statistic Estimate t-statistic Estimate t-statistic Estimate t-statistic Estimate t-statistic
-2.377**
-3.18
-0.06
-0.38
1.18**
6.17
0.413**
2.06
0.723**
3.10
-0.177
-1.50

(-9,-7)

-0.261

(-6,-4)

**

-2.122

-3.34

0.054

(-3,-1)

-1.663**

-2.33

Event

1.616

(1,3)

0.776

0.400

0.141

-0.42

0.161

0.482

3.03

0.145

0.74

-0.193

-1.97

0.54

6.34

0.834

**

4.79

1.054

**

4.98

0.025

0.23

0.46

0.731**

4.07

0.235

0.96

0.486*

1.96

-0.301**

-2.35

0.323

2.44

0.663*

1.74

0.678

1.43

0.112

0.22

-0.021

-0.07

0.173

1.78

0.522

**

3.75

0.450

**

2.60

0.604

**

2.84

**

-3.61

0.508

**

6.04

0.959

**

4.84

**

0.99

4.52

**

-0.268

-2.05

0.625

1.025

0.39

**

1.032

0.159

0.99

1.18

0.820**

0.28

*

0.211

6.46

**

0.383

**

1.17

**

R2

-0.419

(4,6)

-0.683

-1.24

0.033

0.24

1.005

(7,9)

-0.005

-0.01

0.089

0.60

0.742**

4.57

0.587**

3.12

1.03**

4.03

-0.692**

-4.74

0.685

(10,12)

-0.041

-0.08

-0.132

-0.82

0.985**

5.50

0.778**

3.69

0.666**

2.181

-0.165

-1.05

0.61

50

Table 7
Target Firm Performance Before and After Hedge Fund Activism
Panels A, B, and C report various statistics of target company performance in excess of a matched sample in years before and after being targeted
by activist hedge funds. In the columns marked “Year-by-Year Peer Match,” a matching group for each target company is formed from other
companies in the same industry/size/book-to-market group in each year. In the columns marked “t-2 Performance Match,” a matching group
consists of firms that have very close performance by the measure under consideration (the ratio being between 0.9 and 1.1) in year t-2, plus a best
possible match along the industry and size dimensions. Difference is then taken between the target company and the average of the matching
firms; and then averaged over all target companies (“Diff w/ Match”). Also reported are the associated t-statistics. “CEO Contracted Pay” is the
total CEO contracted pay including options valued at granting (“TDC1” from ExecuComp). “CEO Pay-for-Performance” is the percentage of
CEO take-home pay (including option exercise) that comes from equity-based incentive. “%CEO Turnover” is the rate of CEO turnover. “Total
Payout Yield” represents the sum of dividend and share-repurchase scaled by the market value of equity. “Leverage” is the ratio of debt to the
sum of debt and book value of equity. * and ** indicate statistical significance at the 10% and 5% levels.
Panel A: Executive compensation and turnover (Year-by-year peer match only)
CEO Contracted Pay ($1,000)
CEO Pay-for-Performance (%)
%CEO Turnover
Diff w/ Match
t-statistic
Diff w/ Match
t-statistic
Diff w/ Match
t-statistic
t-2

-445

-1.33

-7.10%**

-3.33

1.55%

0.62

t-1

18

0.05

0.29%

0.12

2.52%

1.03

Event

914**

2.06

5.70%**

2.56

5.82%*

1.88

t+1

-296

-0.73

6.14%**

2.02

12.42%**

2.85

(t+1)-(t-1)

-315

-0.60

5.85%*

1.94

9.90%**

2.34

(t+1)-(t)

-1,210**

-2.16

0.45%

0.14

6.60%

1.16

51

Panel B: Operational performance
EBITDA/Assets
EBITDA/Sales
Year-by-Year Peer Match
(t-2) Performance Match
Year-by-Year Peer Match
(t-2) Performance Match
Diff w/ Match
t-statistic
Diff w/ Match
t-statistic
Diff w/ Match
t-statistic
Diff w/ Match
t-statistic
t-2

1.99%**

3.56

0.01%

--

4.41%

1.26

-0.02%

--

t-1

1.16%**

2.17

0.12%

0.30

2.86%

0.81

-1.54%

-0.99

Event

0.01%

0.02

-0.49%

-0.95

2.79%

0.88

-3.03%*

-1.77

t+1

0.97%

1.48

0.29%

0.42

5.35%*

1.84

-2.31%

-1.08

t+2

2.67%**

2.79

1.04%

1.10

8.67%**

3.63

3.15%

1.05

(t+1)-(t-1)

-0.19%

-0.35

0.17%

0.44

2.49%

1.41

-0.77%

-0.23

(t+2)-(t-1)

1.51%*

1.94

0.92%

1.40

5.81%**

4.17

4.69%**

2.67

Panel C: Payout and Capital structure
Total Payout Yield
Leverage
Year-by-Year Peer Match
(t-2) Performance Match
Year-by-Year Peer Match
(t-2) Performance Match
Diff w/ Match
t-statistic
Diff w/ Match
t-statistic
Diff w/ Match
t-statistic
Diff w/ Match
t-statistic
t-2

0.02%

0.14

0.01%

--

3.96%**

3.69

0.24%**

5.96

t-1

-0.07%

-0.60

-0.15%

-1.37

3.15%**

3.11

-0.91%

-1.48

Event

0.27%*

1.85

0.04%

0.28

3.28%**

3.05

0.18%

0.23

t+1

0.38%*

1.88

0.13%

0.63

3.87%**

2.95

0.29%

0.28

t+2

0.16%

0.72

0.19%

0.80

4.45%**

2.69

0.49%

0.31

(t+1)-(t-1)

0.46%**

2.28

0.28%

1.36

0.72%

0.99

1.20%

1.59

(t+2)-(t-1)

0.23%

1.07

0.34%

1.58

1.30%**

2.70

1.40%

1.19

52

Figure 1
Buy-and-Hold Abnormal Return Around The Filing of Schedule 13Ds

3%

80%

2%

60%

1%

40%

0%

20%

-1%

Abnormal Share Turnover (Right)

Abnormal Buy&Hold Return (Left)

53

0%

Abnormal Share Turnover Relative to (t-100,t-40)

100%

t+
10
t+
12
t+
14
t+
16
t+
18
t+
20

4%

t+
8

120%

t+
6

5%

t+
4

140%

t+
2

6%

13 t-2
D
Fi
l in
g

160%

t-4

7%

t-6

180%

t-8

8%

t-1
2
t-1
0

200%

t-1
8
t-1
6
t-1
4

9%

t-2
0

Abnormal Buy-and-Hold Return

The solid line (left axis) plots the average buy-and-hold return around the Schedule 13D filing, in excess of the buy-and-hold return of the valueweight market, from 20 days prior the 13D file date to 20 days afterwards. The bars (right axis) plot the increase (in percentage points) in the
share trading turnover during the same time window compared to the average turnover rate during the preceding (-100, -40) event window.

Figure 2
Buy-and-Hold Abnormal Return and Turnover Around Hedge Fund Exits
The lines (left axis) plot the average buy-and-hold return around the 13D/A file date indicating a reduction of the hedge fund’s position to below
5%, in excess of the buy-and-hold return on the value-weight market, from 20 days prior the 13D/A file date to 20 days afterwards. The two lines
represent the full sample, and the subsample of hedge fund exits from unsuccessful activism. The bars (right axis) plot the share trading turnover
(in percentage points) during the same time window compared to the average turnover rate during the preceding (-100, -40) event window.
8%

300%

6%

250%

2%
150%

t+
10
t+
12
t+
14
t+
16
t+
18
t+
20

t+
8

t+
6

t+
4

t+
2

g
Fi
lin

t-2

100%

D

t-4

t-6

t-8

t-1
0

t-1
2

t-1
4

t-1
6

t-1
8

0%

13

-2%

`
50%

-4%

0%

-6%

-8%

-50%
Days Relative to 13D/A Filing
All Exit-Volumn (right)

Exit after Failure-Volumn (right)

All Exit-Return (left)

Exit after Failure-Return (left)

54

Abnormal Trading Volumn

200%

t-2
0

Abnormal buy-and-hold return

4%

about ECGI
The European Corporate Governance Institute has been established to improve corporate governance through fostering independent scientific research and related activities.
The ECGI will produce and disseminate high quality research while remaining close to
the concerns and interests of corporate, financial and public policy makers. It will draw on
the expertise of scholars from numerous countries and bring together a critical mass of
expertise and interest to bear on this important subject.
The views expressed in this working paper are those of the authors, not those of the ECGI
or its members.

www.ecgi.global

ECGI Working Paper Series in Finance
Editorial Board
Editor

Ernst Maug, Professor of Corporate Finance, Mannheim
Business School, University of Mannheim

Consulting Editors

Franklin Allen, Nippon Life Professor of Finance, Professor of
Economics, The Wharton School of the University of 		
Pennsylvania
Julian Franks, Professor of Finance, London Business School
Marco Pagano, Professor of Economics, Facoltà di Economia
Università di Napoli Federico II
Xavier Vives, Professor of Economics and Financial 		
Management, IESE Business School, University of Navarra
Luigi Zingales, Robert C. McCormack Professor of 		
Entrepreneurship and Finance, University of Chicago, Booth
School of Business

Editorial Assistants

Tamas Barko, University of Mannheim
Johannes Gaul, University of Mannheim
Vanessa Wang, University of Mannheim

www.ecgi.global/content/working-papers

Electronic Access to the Working Paper Series
The full set of ECGI working papers can be accessed through the Institute’s Web-site
(www.ecgi.global/content/working-papers) or SSRN:
Finance Paper Series

http://www.ssrn.com/link/ECGI-Fin.html

Law Paper Series

http://www.ssrn.com/link/ECGI-Law.html

www.ecgi.global/content/working-papers

