    i                                                                                                   i

             “”Internet Appendix”” — 2021/3/31 — 10:09 — page 1 — #1
i                                                                                                           i




            Internet Appendix to “Activism and
            Takeovers’
            Mike Burkart
            London School of Economics and Political Science, Swedish House of
            Finance, CEPR, FMG, and ECGI

            Samuel Lee
            Santa Clara University, ECGI, and Swedish House of Finance




        A. Productivity parameter in the cost function
            For any specification of the effort choice problem where the productivity
            parameter θ is embedded in the value function V , there is an isomorphic
            specification where it is embedded in the cost function C instead. So,
            in most cases, it is irrelevant where θ appears. This is clearly true
            of the activism game: the activist’s profit increases with productivity
            regardless of whether the productivity parameter is embedded in the
            value or the cost function.
              While less obvious, this is also true in the tender offer game. Even
            when θ is embedded in the cost function, C(e,θ), we find that the
            bidder’s profit can decrease in θ if the toehold is sufficiently low. Recall
            that, after substituting the binding free-rider condition, the bidder’s ex
            ante profit function under her optimal effort reduces to

                                          Π∗b = tb V (e∗ )−C(e∗ ,θ).                             (1)

            For small enough tb , the comparative statics of (1) are, as in our original
            model, driven by C(e∗ ,θ). The total derivative of C(e∗ ,θ) with respect
            to θ is
                              dC(e∗ ,θ)                          ∂e∗
                                         = Cθ (e∗ ,θ)+Ce (e∗ ,θ)     .               (2)
                                   dθ                            ∂θ
            The first term reflects the direct effect that higher productivity decreases
            the cost of a given effort. If the effort level is fixed (as is effectively
            the case in a binary effort model), this captures variation in the fixed

            Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Society for Financial Studies 2014.
            doi:10.1093/rfs/Sample




i                                                                                                           i


    i                                                                                                   i
    i                                                                                                 i

                “”Internet Appendix”” — 2021/3/31 — 10:09 — page 2 — #2
i                                                                                                         i

            The Review of Financial Studies / v 00 n 0 2015



            cost of an intervention. The second term reflects the indirect effect that
            higher productivity increases the marginal incentive to provide effort,
            which in turn increases the costs. Our results rely on the incentive effect
            dominating, that is, (2) being strictly positive. This in turn depends on
            the curvature of C (and V ) in a sense made more precise below.
               The exact same logic also holds in our original model where the key
            derivatives are Vθ > 0 and Vθe > 0. Vθ reflects the direct effect that higher
            productivity increases the value improvement for a given effort. If the
            effort level is fixed (as is effectively the case in a binary effort model),
            this captures variation in the fixed value of an intervention. If this is
            the only effect, bidder profits increase with θ. Vθe reflects the indirect
            effect that higher productivity increases the incentive to provide effort,
            which in turn will increase costs. This underlies the unrecompensed
            effort problem. Again, our results rely on the incentive effect dominating.
               Curvature of cost function. To be more precise, we assume an
            affine value improvement function V (e) = γe+V and derive a necessary
            and sufficient condition the cost function C(e,θ) must satisfy for (2) to
            be strictly positive. The baseline assumptions about C are
            Assumption 1. Ce > 0, Cee > 0, Cθ < 0, and Ceθ < 0.
            In words, C is increasing and strictly convex in effort e and a higher
            productivity θ decreases both the marginal cost of effort as well as the
            cost for given effort.
               First, consider the bidder’s post-takeover restructuring effort problem
            following an optimal bid: maxe 12 V (e)−C(e,θ). The solution satisfies
            the first-order condition 12 Ve (e∗ )−Ce (e∗ ,θ) = 0. By the implicit function
            theorem,
                            ∂e∗         −Ceθ (e∗ ,θ)         Ceθ (e∗ ,θ)
                                =− 1                     = −             >0
                            ∂θ             ∗         ∗
                                   2 Vee (e )−Cee (e ,θ)
                                                             Cee (e∗ ,θ)

            where the last equality follows from Vee (e∗ ) = 0 under affine V .
            Substituting this into (2) yields that (2) is strictly positive if and only
            if
                                     Ceθ (e∗ ,θ) Cee (e∗ ,θ)
                                                 >            .                     (3)
                                      Cθ (e∗ ,θ)   Ce (e∗ ,θ)
            The right-hand side measures the convexity of C with respect to effort
            in a way that is invariant to affine transformations.1 Evaluated at e∗ ,
            this measure reduces to a scaled second-order derivative. Given our V -
            specification, the first-order condition yields Ce (e∗ ,θ) = 21 Ve (e∗ ) = γ2 , so
            the convexity measure is γ2 Cee (e∗ ,θ). The larger this measure, the faster

        1
            This is effectively the Arrow-Pratt measure (of absolution risk aversion) applied to C.




            2


i                                                                                                         i


    i                                                                                                 i
    i                                                                                         i

            “”Internet Appendix”” — 2021/3/31 — 10:09 — page 3 — #3
i                                                                                                 i

           Activism and Takeovers Online Appendix



           do costs increase when the optimal effort increases. This in turn implies
           that the optimal effort will be less “elastic.”
              The left-hand side is the ratio of the two effects of a change in θ.
           First, it affects the marginal cost of effort at e∗ . This “incentive” effect
           is captured by Ceθ (e∗ ,θ) in the numerator. Second, it affects the total
           costs (keeping effort) at e∗ . This “level” effect is captured by Cθ (e∗ ,θ) in
           the denominator. The ratio thus measures the relative importance of the
           incentive effect compared to the level effect. The unrecompensed effort
           problem manifests when this ratio is sufficiently large, or more precisely,
           larger than the convexity measure on the right-hand side of (3).
              Two limit cases are instructive. If the cost function becomes
           increasingly less convex, Cee (e∗ ,θ) → 0, effort becomes very “elastic”
           and (3) holds in the limit. Alternatively, if θ predominantly affects a
           “fixed cost” component of C, i.e., if Cθ (e∗ ,θ) < 0 but Ceθ (e∗ ,θ) → 0, (3)
           is violated in the limit.
              Example of the analogy. Consider two versions of a quadratic
           optimization problem with a linear value improvement function V and
           a quadratic cost function C. In the first version, let productivity be
           parameterized in V = θe with C = 2c e2 . Following a takeover after which
           the bidder owns 1/2 of the shares, her restructuring effort problem is
           maxe 12 θe− 2c e2 . The first-order condition is 21 θ = ce, so e∗ = 2c θ
                                                                                    . The
                                                      ∗         ∗  c ∗2    θ 2
                                                                                 θ2
           bidder’s ex-ante profit (7) is then Πb = tb θe − 2 e = tb 2c − 8c . The
           derivative of this expression with respect to θ is tb θc − 4c    θ
                                                                               , which is
                                          1
           negative if and only if tb < 4 .
                                                                                      c 2
              In the second version, productivity is parameterized in C = 2θ            e
           with V = e. The bidder’s post-takeover restructuring effort problem
           is maxe 12 e− 2θc 2
                              e . The first-order condition is 21 = θc e, so e∗ = 2c   θ
                                                                                          .
                                                       ∗       ∗   c ∗2     θ     θ
           The bidder’s ex-ante profit is then Πb = tb e − 2θ e = tb 2c − 8c . The
                                                                            1
           derivative of this expression with respect to θ is tb 1c − 4c       , which is
                                            1
           negative if and only if tb < 4 , as in the first version. Finally, it is
           straightforward to verify that (3) is satisfied, which in this example
                              2c
           is equal to 4cθ > θ .




        B. Incentive compensation contracts
           Much, if not all, of the literature on ownership and control presumes
           that some underlying contract incompleteness makes the allocation
           of residual control rights relevant. That said, consider contracts that
           could provide bidders or activists with incentives beyond those created
           through their ownership stakes. If dispersed shareholders can costlessly
           write such contracts without any help from management, ownership
           structure no longer matters to firm value. This is tantamount to



                                                                                         3


i                                                                                                 i


    i                                                                                         i
    i                                                                                                          i

                  “”Internet Appendix”” — 2021/3/31 — 10:09 — page 4 — #4
i                                                                                                                  i

              The Review of Financial Studies / v 00 n 0 2015



              assuming away the free-rider problem and would void the literatures
              on large shareholders, investor activism, and tender offers.
                 Our analysis includes though one situation in which writing such
              contracts does not require the participation of dispersed shareholders,
              namely a successful bid: Once in control, a bidder can write a contract
              with herself. Even if she owns only half of the shares, she could
              claim compensation that incentivizes her to generate V ∗ (1,θ) instead
              of V ∗ (1/2,θ). A simple example is a “call option” that pays out any
              improvement above V ∗ (1/2,θ) to the bidder-manager.
                 The described contract ensures that the additional effort e(1,θ)−
              e(1/2,θ) is compensated. But it does not compensate for the effort
              induced by the takeover, e(1/2,θ)−e(tb ,θ). The relative magnitude of
              these effort costs determines how much our results are affected, if
              such post-takeover compensation could be imposed. In practice, such
              compensation contracts are bound to be controversial because of the
              unequal treatment of shareholders and potentially astronomical size,
              especially if ∆(1,θ)−∆(1/2,θ) is large.2
                 Even more controversial would be a post-takeover contract compen-
              sating the bidder for e(1/2,θ)−e(tb ,θ) or part of it. Such compensation is
              dilutive in that, at the time of being awarded, it harms shareholder value.
              The same applies to post-takeover compensation for pre-takeover effort,
              which is also subject to the unrecompensed effort problem (as noted
              in Section 3.2). To permit such contracts is to allow self-dealing at the
              expense of minority shareholders. As already pointed out by Grossman
              and Hart (1980), such dilution enables bidders to overcome the free-
              rider problem. But dilution—via compensation or otherwise—conflicts
              with law and legal practice even if it occurs as part of an action that
              overall creates value (see, e.g., the discussion in Section 4 of Müller and
              Panunzi (2004)).

        C. Microfoundations of activism function
              We discuss how three models of specific activist tactics from the existing
              literature can be mapped into our reduced-form campaigning function.
                 Wolfpack activism. In Brav, Dasgupta, and Matthews (2017),
              hereafter BDM, shareholders pressure management through backdoor
              communications. Activism succeeds if a sufficient number of sharehold-
              ers are engaged. Since the engagement decisions are made by dispersed
              shareholders, a coordination problem arises.

          2
              It would be payoff-equivalent to forcing minority shareholders to sell their shares at a price
              equal to V ∗ (1/2,θ) in a freeze-out merger. Freeze-outs are sensitive to legal challenges by
              the minority shareholders because of the potential for abuse. (We analyze freeze-outs
              in Appendix E below.) If self-awarded compensation by controlling owners, as described
              above, were easily approved and deemed innocuous, one would be left to wonder why
              freeze-outs ever appear needed, or why they are subjected to legal scrutiny.




              4


i                                                                                                                  i


    i                                                                                                          i
    i                                                                                                    i

             “”Internet Appendix”” — 2021/3/31 — 10:09 — page 5 — #5
i                                                                                                            i

            Activism and Takeovers Online Appendix



               We consider a simplified version of what BDM label the “activism
            game” for a given ownership structure, using mostly our own notation.
            As in our model, the (lead) activist owns a non-atomistic stake ta . The
            other shares are uniformly distributed among (a continuum of) dispersed
            shareholders. A mass A of the dispersed shareholders is potentially
            skilled ; the rest is unskilled. Potentially skilled investors are actually
            skilled with probability γ, which is common knowledge. A campaign
            succeeds if a mass η = η −ta of dispersed shareholders decides to engage
            the firm alongside the activist, where η is a measure of management
            resistance. We assume that only actually skilled investors are able to
            engage.3 Investors privately observe whether or not they are skilled prior
            to making non-cooperative engagement decisions.
               If engaging, a shareholder incurs a private cost cs . A successful
            campaign increases share value by V ∗ (ta ,θ).4 As gains in share value
            are public (non-excludable), a non-pivotal shareholder engages only if
            she receives a private (excludable) benefit. In short, there is a free-
            rider problem. In BDM, engagement allows skilled investors to signal
            their type (to the market) for a reputational benefit R.5 This private
            benefit relaxes the free-rider problem. If R is large enough and η is
            common knowledge, there are three possible equilibrium constellations:
            For η ≤ 0, it is a dominant strategy for skilled shareholders to engage, as
            the campaign is bound to succeed. For η > γA, it is a dominant strategy
            not to engage, as the campaign is bound to fail. Last, for η ∈ (0,γA], two
            equilibria exist, in which all or none of the skilled shareholders engage.
               BDM focus on the case of multiple equilibria. To refine the
            equilibrium, they assume that skilled investors receive noisy private
            signals about η of the form xs,i = η + a1 i , i ∈ [0,γA], where a measures
            signal precision. Under this information structure (global games), the
            equilibrium is unique and involves threshold strategies: a skilled investor
            engages if her signal is below a threshold value x∗s , and otherwise remains
            passive. Due to the signal noise, investors can err, that is, wrongly engage
            or remain passive. Consequently, for  > 0, a campaign has a probabilistic
            outcome, i.e., q ∈ (0,1), even when the true realized state is η ≤ γA. When
            the signal precision a increases, a campaign has the “correct” outcome
            more often, and as a → 0, succeeds whenever it can be successful.


        3
            In BDM, all investors are able to engage, but only skilled ones choose to do so in
            equilibrium.
        4
            In BDM, the lead activist may gain less per share due to higher engagement costs.
            Translated to our model, this would mean C ∗ (ta )+K(a∗ ) > cs .
        5
            In BDM, the reputational benefit is more endogenous, as the strength of the signal depends
            on the unskilled shareholders’ engagement decisions (see footnote 3 above). They show that
            the two types of investors separate in equilibrium under certain parameters (for which the
            value of a “pooling” reputation relative to the engagement cost is too low for unskilled
            investors to gamble on it).




                                                                                                    5


i                                                                                                            i


    i                                                                                                    i
    i                                                                                                     i

                “”Internet Appendix”” — 2021/3/31 — 10:09 — page 6 — #6
i                                                                                                             i

            The Review of Financial Studies / v 00 n 0 2015



               The above can be mapped to our framework by introducing the
            assumption that the lead activist controls the signal precision a at
            private cost K(a,ψ) with Ka > 0, Kψ < 0, Kψa < 0, where ψ is a measure
            of communication skill. In words, the activist’s effort affects the skilled
            investors’ inferences about the ease with which a campaign would
            succeed. In reduced form, this generates a success probability function q
            that depends on a and ψ as postulated in our model. It also matches our
            reduced- form assumption that the lead activist’s stake ta has a direct
            positive effect on q: larger ta reduce η, which ceteris paribus raises the
            probability that the campaign succeeds.
               Finally, in the above setting, as in our model, q depends on θ
            only indirectly through the payoff conditional on success, V ∗ (ta ,θ).
            In particular, given that gains in share value are public benefits,
            they cancel out of the condition that determines any non-pivotal
            shareholder’s engagement decision. However, if one endogenizes the
            ownership structure prior to engagement decisions, the potentially
            skilled investors are more inclined to “buy into” the firm (at some
            opportunity cost as in BDM) when V ∗ (ta ,θ) is larger, in anticipation
            of a more profitable campaign. This would increase the mass of skilled
            investors in the subsequent activism game, and thereby increase the
            success probability q for any given a and ψ. In reduced form, this would
            imply qθ > 0, and so reinforce the key comparative statics in our model.

              Proxy fight. In our current setup with perfect information and only
            value-increasing activists, there is no reason for a proxy fight to fail.
            For a realistic setting in which an activist must campaign to attract the
            votes of other shareholders, we need to introduce the possibility that
            she might extract private benefits at the expense of shareholder value.
              Suppose an activist can be either a good type or a bad type: If
            successful, a good type improves share value by VG ≡ V ∗ (ta ,θ) > 0,
            whereas a bad type reduces it to VB < 0 by extracting private benefits.
            Let λ be the commonly known prior probability that an activist is the
            good type.6 If λVG +(1−λ)VB ≥ 0, dispersed shareholders will vote for
            the activist even without any additional information. We assume that
            this condition is violated so that the activist must engage in (costly)
            communication to garner more votes.
              A simple communication model is that the activist emits a signal at
            cost K(a), which is “noisy” in the sense that only a random fraction β̃ of
            the other shareholders assimilate the information. The good activist can
            use this communication technology to provide “evidence” of her type to


        6
            The assumption that a proposal need not be in all shareholders’ interest features in models
            of shareholder voting both on management proposals (Maug and Rydqvist 2009) and on
            activist proposals (Brav and Matthews 2011).




            6


i                                                                                                             i


    i                                                                                                     i
    i                                                                                                         i

             “”Internet Appendix”” — 2021/3/31 — 10:09 — page 7 — #7
i                                                                                                                 i

            Activism and Takeovers Online Appendix



            those who end up assimilating the “evidence.”7 If β̃ is a continuously
            distributed variable on (0,1) with mean β(a,ψ), β a > 0, β ψ > 0, and
            β aψ > 0, this implies a success probability function q that increases in a
            and ψ.8 Also, larger ta reduce the number of additional votes the activist
            needs to succeed, and thus raise q for any given a and ψ. By contrast,
            θ affects q only through the activist’s choice of a. These properties are
            all consistent with our reduced-form specification.
               An alternative communication model with similar implications lets
            both activist types send noisy signals. Suppose a random mass β̃ ∈ (0,1−
            ta ) of dispersed shareholders assimilate independent signals xi ∈ {G,B},
            i ∈ [0, β̃], with Pr(xi = G|bad ) = ρ ∈ (0, 1/2) and Pr(xi = G|good ) = a ∈
            (1/2,1), which is to say that signal G indicates a good type. Suppose the
            good type can increase its probability a of generating signal G at some
            private cost K(a,ψ) with Ka > 0, Kψ < 0, Kψa < 0, where ψ is a measure
            of communication skill. This generates a success probability function q
            that depends on a, ψ, and ta as postulated in our model. In addition,
            however, θ has a direct effect on q: for larger VG (which increases in
            θ), a smaller posterior probability that an activist is of the good type
            suffices to sway shareholder votes. Intuitively, it becomes “easier” to
            persuade other shareholders to back the campaign, which reinforces the
            comparative statics in our model.
               Sequential escalation. Activists are known not only to have
            recourse to a range of tactics but also to sequence them, progressing
            to hostile tactics (e.g., proxy fight) only if others (e.g., backdoor
            communications) fail. We now describe how such a dynamic setting,
            inspired by Gantchev (2013), maps into our static formulation.
               Suppose a campaign comprises a discrete, finite number n of potential
            stages (including, e.g., backdoor communications, media campaigns, and
            proxy contests). In stage s ∈ {1,...,n}, the activist chooses stage-s effort
            as at private cost Ks (as ) to determine the probability qs (as ) that the
            campaign succeeds in stage s. If it does, the activist moves to the
            restructuring stage and raises share value by V ∗ (ta ,θ). Otherwise, she
            moves to stage s+1 unless s = n, in which case the game ends with a
            failed campaign. Activists can “skip” stages by setting as = 0 and moving

        7
            This is in the spirit of Dewatripont and Tirole (2005) who model information as somewhere
            in-between “hard” and “soft” in that communication effort converts a signal into “hard”
            information with some probability—only in our case the receivers (shareholders) do not
            (need to) exert any effort to assimilate the information.
        8
            Strictly speaking, given that atomistic shareholders are non-pivotal, they are indifferent
            about whether and how to vote. With n discrete shareholders and simple majority rule,
            the above setting induces sincere voting in equilibrium: knowing her own vote only matters
            when the aggregate vote is close (i.e., the other shareholders’ signals cause their votes to be
            equally split), each shareholder wants it to tilt the outcome in the “right direction” given
            her signal. Since this remains true for n → ∞, sincere voting is a plausible assumption also
            for our setting.




                                                                                                         7


i                                                                                                                 i


    i                                                                                                         i
    i                                                                                                   i

                “”Internet Appendix”” — 2021/3/31 — 10:09 — page 8 — #8
i                                                                                                           i

            The Review of Financial Studies / v 00 n 0 2015



            to s+1, and can “exit” campaigns at any stage k by setting as = 0 for
            all s ∈ {k,k +1,...n}.9 Let every qs and Ks satisfy Assumptions 5 and 6.
               An effort vector a = (a1 ,...,an ) summarizes a campaign strategy.
                                             Pn           Qs−1
            Given strategy a, q(a) ≡ s=1 qs (as ) k=0 (1−qk (ak )) and K (a) ≡
            Pn             Qs−1
               s=1 Ks (as ) k=0 (1−qk (ak )) with q0 (a0 ) = 0 are, respectively, the ex
            ante success probability and expected campaign costs. Both q and K
            are continuous in as , as they are compositions (specifically, sums of
                                                                                       ∂q
            products) of continuous functions. Also, q is increasing in all as : ∂a      s
                                                                                           =
             ∂qs                              ∂qs
            ∂as  Pr(no  success before   s)−  ∂as Pr(success  after s) > 0,  since  “success
            after s” is a strict subset of “no success before s.” K is not necessarily
            increasing in all as everywhere since costs incurred in early stages, by
            raising the chance of early success, can obviate the need to expend costs
            in later stages. But for any strategies a and a0 such that q(a0 ) > q(a)
            but K(a0 ) < K(a), strategy a is dominated. Restricting attention to the
            subset of undominated strategies, which is without loss of generality,
            recovers the trade-off that a higher ex ante success probability q comes
            at a higher (“campaign effort” as measured by the) expected cost K.
            Our static specification is akin to this restricted dynamic problem.
               Since q and K combine elements that are concave (qs ) and convex
            (1−qs , Ks ) in as , they need not be globally convex or concave. A
            unique solution a∗ is still guaranteed, since Assumptions 5 and 6 apply
            to all stage functions qs and Ks . This is simple to see by backwards
            induction: The stage-n problem is isomorphic to our static framework,
            and thus has a unique solution and value function Vn . The activist’s
            problem in stage n−1 can be written maxan−1 qn−1 (an−1 )∆(sa ,θ)−
            K (an−1 )+(1−qn−1 (an−1 ))Vn . Rearranging the objective function to
            qn−1 (an−1 )∆ˆ n−1 (sa ,θ)−K (an−1 )+Vn with ∆     ˆ n−1 (sa ,θ) ≡ ∆(sa ,θ)−Vn
            shows that this, too, is isomorphic to our static framework save for
            an adjusted payoff conditional on success and added constant; thus, a
            unique solution and value function Vn−1 exists. (If ˆ      ∆n−1 (sa ,θ) < 0, the
            solution is to skip stage n−1.) Proceeding recursively to stage 1 yields
            a unique a∗ .
               Finally, the expected campaign profit under the optimal strategy a∗
            is increasing in θ, i.e., ∂V                                            ∂Vn
                                      ∂θ > 0. In analogy to our static results, ∂θ > 0.
                                         1

                                                                  ∂Vn−1
            Going backwards, by the envelope theorem, ∂θ = qn−1 (a∗n−1 ) ∂∆            ∂θ +
              1−qn−1 (a∗n−1 ) ∂V              ∂Vn            ∂∆
                             
                                ∂θ
                                  n
                                    > 0,   as  ∂θ  > 0  and  ∂θ  > 0.  Applied   recursively
            until stage 1, these steps establish ∂V  ∂θ > 0.
                                                       1


               To summarize the dynamic setting: ex ante success probability
            increases in expected campaign effort (ignoring dominated strategies), a
            unique optimal campaign strategy exists, and the activist’s equilibrium
        9
            Unlike in Gantchev (2013), the activist’s outside option is zero regardless of when she
            exits a campaign. This is consistent with our framework where the firm retains its status
            quo value when an activist exits and all (exit) trades are fully transparent.




            8


i                                                                                                           i


    i                                                                                                   i
    i                                                                                                          i

                “”Internet Appendix”” — 2021/3/31 — 10:09 — page 9 — #9
i                                                                                                                  i

               Activism and Takeovers Online Appendix



               expected payoff increases in the scope for value improvement. These
               key properties are mirrored in our static formulation. As an aside,
               regardless of mathematical details, the notion of sequential escalation
               provides conceptual support to our framework: Sequencing implies
               that a campaign can fail. If the activist’s arsenal enabled her to
               (ultimately) always succeed, rational managers would give in at the
               outset. Resistance, which leads to subsequent escalation, makes sense
               only if believed to have some chance of success. Sequencing also implies
               that campaigns are costly; otherwise, there would be no benefit (option
               value) of delaying tactics.


        D. Bidder-activist interactions
               Our model with takeover activism assumes (1) that a successful activist
               has all the bargaining power in merger negotiations with a bidder and (2)
               that the potential bidder and activist are both present from the outset of
               the game. Neither of these assumptions is crucial to our results, though
               relaxing them generates additional implications.
                  Bargaining power. Ex post, after a successful campaign, the greater
               surplus under a brokered merger (provided low legal risk) implies that it
               prevails over regular activism or a tender offer for any bargaining power
               distribution, because the participation constraints ensure Pareto gains.
               However, for the campaign to be ex ante profitable, takeover activists
               must expect to extract enough from the merger negotiations to cover the
               campaign costs. The assumption that they have all the bargaining power
               relieves us from having to distinguish bargaining parameters for which
               this is (not) the case. It also levels the playing field: The bidder in the
               tender offer game makes a first-and-final offer, and the regular activist
               in Section 3.3 extracts the maximum restructuring gains conditional on
               her stake. The above assumption puts the takeover activist on equal
               footing.
                  That said, our results obviously hold as long as takeover activists
               have enough bargaining power to recoup, in expectation, their (by then
               sunk) campaign costs from the ensuing merger.10 Moreover, we show in
               an earlier version of the paper that bidders may want to ensure that
               campaigns remain ex ante attractive even if activists have ex post little
               bargaining power in a merger. A specific strategy to this end is to adjust
               ex ante toeholds (which affect “threat points” in the merger negotiation)
               to counteract uneven ex post bargaining powers that would deter a
               campaign. That is, a bidder may restrict her own toehold and instead

          10
               The result that the whole firm is sold after a successful campaign holds for any distribution
               of bargaining power, as bidder and target shareholders each receive a fraction of whatever
               expected post-merger surplus is generated.




                                                                                                          9


i                                                                                                                  i


    i                                                                                                          i
    i                                                                                                       i

                “”Internet Appendix”” — 2021/3/31 — 10:09 — page 10 — #10
i                                                                                                               i

              The Review of Financial Studies / v 00 n 0 2015



              “tip off” an activist to build up a toehold in the prospective target, and
              doing so may be the Pareto-dominant intervention strategy.11
                 Costly search. Our framework abstracts from search-and-matching
              aspects of M&A markets (e.g., Rhodes-Kropf and Robinson 2008).
              We can think of two conceivable search frictions. First, identifying
              targets is costly for both activists and bidders. To the extent that
              takeovers and activism are implemented by distinct specialized agents,
              differences in the profitability of the two intervention modes would lead
              to differences in search incentives. Conversely, search competition and
              market thickness would affect the returns to takeovers and activism.12
              Last, because takeover activism offers scope for Pareto-improvements,
              it would increase the incentives of both bidders and activists to search
              for (joint) targets.
                 Second, one could assume that a bidder must incur search costs to
              involve a takeover activist instead of launching a tender offer. Vice versa,
              an activist may have to search for a bidder to broker a merger rather than
              settle for regular activism. In such circumstances, takeover activism can
              still emerge, as there is scope for Pareto improvement, but it requires
              that the expected gains exceed the added search costs. Because the
              gains increase in the productivity parameter θ, the equilibrium could
              then feature takeovers for low θ, regular activism for intermediate θ,
              and takeover activism for high θ.


        E. Freeze-outs
              As studied in Section 4, a key advantage of takeover activism is that,
              once successful, the activist can induce a merger that is binding for
              all shareholders. A level playing field comparison between takeover
              activism and takeovers should account for the fact that bidders, once
              in control, have the same power. Indeed, successful bidders can force
              remaining minority shareholders to sell their shares in a freeze-out. Like
              all mergers, a freeze-out or its terms can be legally contested by the
              affected shareholders.

         11
              On the downside, such “Trojan horse” tactics can be susceptible to insider trading
              allegations. A highly publicized case involved the pharmaceutical company Valeant and
              the hedge fund Pershing Square. With financial backing from Valeant, Pershing Square
              acquired a 9.7 percent toehold in Allergan and pushed for a sale of the company to Valeant.
              Valeant and Pershing Square were sued for insider trading. Allergan was eventually sold
              to another firm, Actavis, but Valeant and Pershing Square made about $2.6 billion on the
              Actavis deal through their toehold (De La Merced, Gelles, and Abrams 2014; and Benoit
              and Hoffman 2014). In a comment, then-SEC Chair Mary Jo White warned against such
              “toehold deals” (Gandel 2015).
         12
              Such competitive effects would, however, not change the implication of Proposition 5 that
              the returns to takeover activism should be higher than those to regular activism because
              of the “hurdle rate” set by the profit that the activist earns by free-riding on a tender
              offer.




              10


i                                                                                                               i


    i                                                                                                       i
    i                                                                                                     i

             “”Internet Appendix”” — 2021/3/31 — 10:09 — page 11 — #11
i                                                                                                             i

             Activism and Takeovers Online Appendix



                Combining a tender offer with a freeze-out could overcome the free-
             rider problem (Yarrow 1985; Amihud, Kahan, and Sundaram 2004): If
             remaining minority shareholders can be forced to sell at the initial bid
             price, a shareholder’s payoff is independent of her tendering decision.
             But subsequent work shows this to be a knife-edge result. Dalkir,
             Dalkir, and Levit (2019) demonstrate that in a model with finitely
             many shareholders, as their number grows large, bidder profits vanish
             for all freeze-out thresholds above simple majority. Müller and Panunzi
             (2004) show that legal risk in a freeze-out, however small, also restores
             the free-rider problem. We examine the latter argument in a setting
             with endogenous value creation. In this setting, the freeze-out option
             not only restores the free-rider problem but even works to the bidder’s
             disadvantage.

             Two-tier tender offer
             We extend the tender offer game from Section 3.2 as follows: Subsequent
             to a successful restricted bid (pb ,rb ) with rb ∈ [1/2−tb ,1−tb ], the bidder
             can freeze out fb ∈ [0,1−rb −tb ] of the remaining minority shareholders
             at pb .13 Thereafter, the bidder chooses effort eb . Finally, a legal challenge
             succeeds with probability  in which case the freeze-out price is adjusted
             to the post-freeze-out firm value V ∗ (eb ,θ).14
                 Proceeding by backward induction, consider a freeze-out that
             increases the bidder’s stake from tb +rb to sb = tb +rb +fb . Taking into
             account the legal price-revision risk, her post-freeze-out problem is
             to choose a restructuring effort eb to maximize sb V (eb ,θ)−C (eb ,θ)−
                                +
             fb [V (eb ,θ)−pb ] , which simplifies to seb V (eb ,θ)−C (eb ,θ)+fb pb where
             seb ≡ tb +rb +fb (1−). Since fb pb is independent of eb , Lemma 1 applies,
             and the bidder generates post-freeze-out value V ∗ (e   sb ,θ) at cost C ∗ (e
                                                                                         sb ,θ).
             The risk that the freeze-out price is revised upwards means, intuitively,
             that minority shareholders can still free-ride with some probability.
             Due to this probabilistic ex post free-riding, the bidder’s effective or
             incentive-relevant stake is seb rather than sb . Legal risk thus undermines
             incentives. At the time of a freeze-out, the bidder’s freeze-out payoff is
                     seb V ∗ (e
                              sb ,θ)−C ∗ (e
                                          sb ,θ)+fb pb −fb pb = ∆(e
                                                                   sb ,θ)−(1−)fb pb .             (4)

        13
             Rather than imposing rb = 1/2 −tb and the binary choice fb ∈ {0, 1/2} we allow for any
             rb ∈ [1/2−tb ,1−tb ] and fb ∈ [0,1−rb −tb ] and derive that the bidder optimally sets rb =
             1/2 −tb and either fb = 0 or f = 1/2.
                                           b
        14
             Although our results hold also for infinitesimal  > 0, it is worth noting that the legal
             issues surrounding a freeze-out are non-negligible because they involve a conflict between
             controlling and minority shareholders. For a detailed discussion, see Sections IV-V in
             Müller and Panunzi (2004). Also, assuming that a successful legal challenge causes the
             price to be adjusted all the way to the post-freeze-out value is not crucial. As long as
             there is a chance of some upward revision, however small, our results hold except that,
             in Proposition 1 below, the size of the commitment premium needs to be adjusted to the
             expected revision.




                                                                                                    11


i                                                                                                             i


    i                                                                                                     i
    i                                                                                     i

          “”Internet Appendix”” — 2021/3/31 — 10:09 — page 12 — #12
i                                                                                             i

        The Review of Financial Studies / v 00 n 0 2015



        The above turn out to be off-equilibrium considerations because,
        in equilibrium, a freeze-out does not materialize. The proof is
        straightforward: A bidder only executes a freeze-out if the price pb is
        strictly below the post-freeze-out value V ∗ (e
                                                      sb ,θ). Anticipating a freeze-
        out, target shareholders do not sell at pb in the initial offer because the
        freeze-out price may be revised upwards as the result of a successful legal
        challenge. Hence, in any equilibrium with a successful tender offer, the
        price must be such that a freeze-out is unattractive. This is the effect of
        legal risk identified in Müller and Panunzi (2004).
           In our model with endogenous value generation, this equilibrium effect
        has the novel implication that the bidder pays strictly more than what
        the shares will ultimately be worth.
        Proposition 1. In the two-tier tender offer game, the bidder acquires
        rb = 1/2 −tb shares, with no subsequent freeze-out, at a per-share price
        strictly above the post-takeover share value
                                 ∆(1− /2,θ)−∆(1/2,θ)
                          pb =          1/2 − /2
                                                      > V ∗ (1/2,θ).



        Proof. The proof is at the end of this appendix.                             
        For the bidder to find buying additional shares after the takeover
        unattractive, the wedge between post-freeze-out value and price must be
        insufficient for her to recoup the additional effort cost. If so, it remains
        optimal for her to acquire just enough shares to gain control, rb = 1/2 −tb .
        To determine the lowest bid for which a freeze-out is unattractive,
        consider deviations fb > 0 at a given price pb . As the post-freeze-out
        value V ∗ (1/2 +fb ,θ) strictly increases in fb , while the price is fixed, the
        best possible deviation is to buy all minority shares, fb = 1/2. To deter
        this deviation, pb must satisfy

                             ∆(1/2,θ) ≥ ∆(1− /2,θ)−(1−) 21 pb .

        The left-hand side is the bidder’s payoff without a freeze-out after having
        bought rb = 1/2 −tb shares, and the right-hand side is her payoff (4) from
        a freeze-out with fb = 1/2. The price pb at which this inequality is binding
        is the optimal bid and it turns out to be strictly above the post-takeover
        value V ∗ (1/2,θ). It follows from a comparison to Lemma 2 that the bidder
        is worse off with the freeze-out option.
           In Müller and Panunzi (2004), the freeze-out option is merely
        irrelevant. In their model, the post- takeover value V is exogenous
        and so the same for all sb ∈ [1/2,1]. Therefore, once pb = V , the bidder
        is indifferent with respect to sb and a freeze-out. In our model, the post-
        takeover value V ∗ (sb ,θ) is endogenous and increases with sb ∈ [1/2,1]. At



        12


i                                                                                             i


    i                                                                                     i
    i                                                                                        i

        “”Internet Appendix”” — 2021/3/31 — 10:09 — page 13 — #13
i                                                                                                i

        Activism and Takeovers Online Appendix



        pb = V ∗ (1/2,θ), the bidder would want to exercise the freeze-out option
        and rational shareholders, anticipating this, would hold out in the initial
        bid. This forces the bidder to pay a “ commitment” premium that deters
        a freeze-out.
           Higher legal risk reduces the firm value that the bidder would generate
        after a freeze-out. This lowers her off-equilibrium gain from undertaking
        a freeze-out, which in turn lowers the commitment premium she must
        incorporate in the initial equilibrium bid. In the limit, the bidder’s
        effective stake under the optimal bid converges to lim→1 seb = 1/2 for any
        freeze-out strategy fb , as the freeze-out price is almost surely revised
        to the post-freeze-out value. This undermines incentives such that the
        value improvement becomes V ∗ (e    sb ,θ) = V ∗ (1/2,θ)—i.e., independent of
        the bidder’s ultimate stake as in a setting with exogenous post-takeover
        values. In this limit, the temptation to execute a freeze-out vanishes,
        and therewith the commitment premium such that the bidder’s profit is
        the same as in Section 3.2.

        Proof of Proposition 1
        We first provide a formal proof that a freeze-out never occurs in
        equilibrium. Suppose to the contrary that there is a freeze-out. Antic-
        ipating this, rational shareholders would only tender if pb ≥ (1−)pb +
        V ∗ (e
              sb ,θ), respectively, pb ≥ V ∗ (e
                                              sb ,θ). Therefore, there would be no risk
        of a price revision in equilibrium, which simplifies the bidder’s effort
        problem to maxeb sb V (eb ,θ)−C(eb ) with sb ≡ tb +rb +fb . Accordingly,
        the post-freeze-out firm value would be V ∗ (sb ,θ). Hence, while the
        bidder’s interim expected profit would hence be (tb +rb )V ∗ (tb +rb ,θ)−
        C ∗ (tb +rb ,θ) without a freeze-out, it would be (tb +rb )V ∗ (sb ,θ)−
        C ∗ (sb ,θ) with a freeze-out. By revealed preference, (tb +rb )V ∗ (tb +
        rb ,θ)−C ∗ (tb +rb ,θ) > (tb +rb )V ∗ (sb ,θ)−C ∗ (sb ,θ). So, the bidder would
        refrain from the freeze-out, in contradiction to the shareholders’
        premised anticipation.
           We next prove that the bidder buys no more than 1/2 −tb shares.
        At pb = V ∗ (tb +rb +δ,θ) with δ > 0, the bidder’s profit from acquiring
        rb ∈ [1/2 −tb ,1−tb ) shares is Πrb V ∗ (tb +rb +δ,θ) = (tb +rb )V ∗ (tb +rb ,θ)−
        C ∗ (tb +rb ,θ)−rb V ∗ (tb +rb +δ,θ), while her profit from acquiring
        rb +δ shares is Πrb+δ V ∗ (tb +rb +δ,θ) = tb V ∗ (tb +rb +δ,θ)−C ∗ (tb +rb +δ,θ).
        Since      (tb +rb )V ∗ (tb +rb ,θ)−C ∗ (tb +rb ,θ) > (tb +rb )V ∗ (tb +rb +δ,θ)−
          ∗
        C (tb +rb +δ,θ), it follows that Πrb V ∗ (tb +rb +δ,θ) > Πrb+δ V ∗ (tb +rb +δ,θ) .
        Given pb ≥ V ∗ (tb +rb ,θ) must hold in equilibrium, rb = 1/2 −tb is optimal
        (Lemma 2).
           Last, we prove that the bidder must pay strictly more than
        the post-takeover share value. To buy no more than rb = 1/2 −tb
        in equilibrium, the bidder must choose pb such that a subsequent
        freeze-out is unprofitable. To derive the optimal freeze-out strategy,


                                                                                       13


i                                                                                                i


    i                                                                                        i
    i                                                                                                   i

             “”Internet Appendix”” — 2021/3/31 — 10:09 — page 14 — #14
i                                                                                                           i

           The Review of Financial Studies / v 00 n 0 2015



           write the bidder’s interim expected payoff from a freeze-out as
           ΠFb =seb V (eb (e
                           sb ,θ),θ)−C(eb (e
                                           sb ,θ),θ))−(1−)fb pb , where eb (e
                                                                             sb ,θ) is the
           post-freeze-out restructuring effort, and take the total derivative with
                                                          dΠF
           respect to fb for a given pb . This yields dfbb = (1−)V (eb (e     sb ,θ),θ)+
           [e
            sb Ve (eb (e                 sb ,θ))] ∂eb∂(sesebb ,θ) −(1−)pb . Using the first-order
                       sb ,θ),θ)−Ce (eb (e
           condition for restructuring effort, seb Ve (eb (e             sb ,θ),θ) = Ce (eb (e
                                                                                             sb ,θ)),
                                        dΠF
           simplifies this to        dfb = (1−)V (eb (e
                                       b
                                                       sb ,θ),θ)−(1−)pb > 0. Since
           V (eb (e
                  sb ,θ),θ) increases in fb , the optimal freeze-out—if one
           is profitable—is fb∗ = 1−rb −tb . To deter a freeze-out given
           rb = 1/2 −tb , pb must hence satisfy 1/2V ∗ (1/2,θ)−C ∗ (1/2,θ) ≥
           (1− /2)V ∗ (1− /2,θ)−C ∗ (1− /2,θ)− 1−
                                                   2 pb , respectively,

                                                                  1−
                                    ∆(1/2,θ) ≥ ∆(1− /2,θ)−           pb .                       (5)
                                                                   2
           Imposing equality in (5) and solving for the price yields the price
           pb in the proposition. To see that pb > V ∗ (1/2,θ), set pb = V ∗ (1/2,θ) in
           (5), which then simplifies to 1− 2 V ∗ (1/2,θ)−C ∗ (1/2,θ) ≥ ∆(1− /2,θ),
                                               

           which is false by revealed preference. 

        F. Importance of free-riding behavior
           We begin by restating the four distinctive predictions of our theory:
           (1) A ranking of interventions based on target gains deviates from a
           ranking based on intervention profits, within the set of tender offers
           and across tender offers and regular activism; (2) activists specialize
           in governance reforms, notably takeover activism; (3) takeover activism
           generates more value and is more profitable than other categories of
           activism; (4) institutional changes that facilitate activism do not only
           lead to more campaigns but also decrease hostile bids while increasing
           total M&A.
              Absence of free-riding behavior. The above predictions are
           difficult to generate without free-riding behavior. Suppose campaigns
           are costless and target shareholders respond to tender offers as if acting
           collectively. Even if effort is unobservable, the first-best outcome then
           obtains: a bidder buys all shares and provides first-best effort. Activism
           would never emerge—unless further constraints are introduced.
              Wealth constraints that necessitate outside financing to acquire shares
           (beyond the toehold) are a natural candidate. If effort is unobservable,
           outside financing is not always feasible, creating scope for activism.
           Since higher θ relax financing constraints, such a framework predicts
           activism for low θ and takeovers for high θ. Accordingly, takeovers
           should be categorically more profitable than activism, and bidder profits
           should be positively related to takeover surplus. In fact, the ranking of



           14


i                                                                                                           i


    i                                                                                                   i
    i                                                                                 i

        “”Internet Appendix”” — 2021/3/31 — 10:09 — page 15 — #15
i                                                                                         i

        Activism and Takeovers Online Appendix



        interventions according to aggregate (or target) gains would equal their
        ranking according to intervention profits. Furthermore, in such a model,
        there is no rationale for takeover activism.
           Takeover defenses, such as poison pills, are another constraint that
        generates scope for activism and even for takeover activism, as in Corum
        and Levit (2019). If a takeover activist cannot commit to exercising the
        poison pill even when bilateral negotiations fail, the bidder cannot be
        held to less than her tender offer profit in any bargaining outcome.
        Without free-riding, the bidder’s tender offer profit equals the first-best
        surplus minus the profit the activist would make from implementing
        value improvements on her own, that is, from regular activism. (Unless
        the offer includes this concession, the activist exercises the poison pill
        and engages in regular activism.) Thus, takeover activism would be
        equally profitable as regular activism.
           All the above being said, we need to emphasize that assuming free-
        rider problems is by no means unique to our paper. The takeover
        literature has extensively studied GH free-riding. Similarly, more or less
        by their very nature, all theories of active shareholders presume JM
        free-riding. Moreover, all papers that analyze the endogenous formation
        of activist stakes through anonymous market trading assume JM free-
        riding and GH free-riding. In the latter models, the reliance on GH
        free-riding is two-fold: First, the GH free-rider condition appears as
        the market-maker’s break-even condition, except it is relaxed by the
        presence of “noise traders.” In fact, the very point of Kyle and Vila
        (1991), who pioneered this literature, is that noise traders relax the GH
        free-rider problem. Second, the premise that “secret” toehold formation
        matters implies GH free-riding. Without the latter, a plain takeover
        (without or after the toehold acquisition) would lead to a first-best
        outcome in those models. What distinguishes our analysis from others
        in the literature is not that we assume GH and JM free-riding but rather
        that we explicitly compare the consequences of confronting one or the
        other.
           Additional differences. Our model assumes that bidders and
        activists differ only in their mode of intervention. This is meant to focus
        the analysis on the dual free-rider problem rather than to dispute the
        existence of other differences. That said, many other differences would
        modify q and K, or differentiate V or C across bidders and activists
        without altering the sign of the comparative statics. For example, with
        n > 1 activist blockholders, free-riding is partially manifested as an
        effort-in-team problem, with success probability being a function q(e;θ)
        of an effort vector e= (e1 ,...,en ). If the marginal return to campaign
        effort, ceteris paribus, increases in θ (i.e., qei θ > 0 for i = 1,...,n),
        equilibrium profits generally increase in θ for all activists. Reputational
        concerns may also matter for activists’ incentives. The reputational



                                                                                15


i                                                                                         i


    i                                                                                 i
    i                                                                                                i

                   “”Internet Appendix”” — 2021/3/31 — 10:09 — page 16 — #16
i                                                                                                        i

        The Review of Financial Studies / v 00 n 0 2015



        benefits of current success for engaging future targets could, in reduced
        form, be captured as a reduction in current campaigning costs K. Again,
        this would not alter that higher θ raise campaign profit (via financial
        gains from the current target). For bidders, reputational incentives
        to increase (restructuring) effort would exacerbate the unrecompensed
        effort problem in the current takeover.
           One difference that could weaken our results is that dilution is a
        potential source of bidder gains, while activist gains are confined to
        toeholds (Becht et al. 2009; Brav, Jiang, and Kim 2010). If bidders
        can divert a significant share of the target value once in control,
        the unrecompensed effort problem disappears. However, minority
        shareholder protection is a basic principle of corporate (governance) law;
        and in jurisdictions where minority shareholders are not well protected,
        disciplinary interventions in widely held firms are unlikely to be relevant,
        as most firms would have controlling shareholders.



        References

        Admati, A., and P. Pfleiderer. 2009. The ‘Wall Street Walk’ and shareholder activism:
        Exit as a form of voice. Review of Financial Studies 22:2445–2485.

        Aghion, P., P. Bolton, and J. Tirole. 2004. Exit options in corporate finance: Liquidity
        versus incentives. Review of Finance 8:327–53.

        Amihud Y., M. Kahan, and R. Sundaram. 2004. The foundations of freezeout laws in
        takeovers. Journal of Finance 59:1325–1344.

        Becht, M., J. Franks, J. Grant, and H. Wagner. 2017. The returns to hedge fund activism:
        An international study. Review of Financial Studies 30:2933–71.

        Benoit, D., and L. Hoffman. 2014. Ackman-Valeant alliance proved unwieldy. Wall Street
        Journal, November 19. https://www.wsj.com/articles/ackman-valeant-alliance-proved-
        unwieldy-1416440911.

        Brav, A., and R. Matthews. 2011. Empty voting and the efficiency of corporate governance.
        Journal of Financial Economics 99:289–307.

        Brav, A., W. Jiang, and H. Kim. 2010. Hedge fund activism: A review. Foundations and
        Trends in Finance 4:1–66.

        Burkart, M., and S. Lee. 2015. Signalling to dispersed shareholders and corporate control.
        Review of Economic Studies 82:922–62.

        Burkart, M., D. Gromb, and F. Panunzi. 1997. Large shareholders, monitoring, and the
        value of the firm. Quarterly Journal of Economics 112:693–728.

        Burkart, M., and F. Panunzi. 2008. Takeovers. In Financial Markets and Institutions:
        A European Perspective, eds. X. Freixas, P. Hartmann, and C. Mayer, 265–297. Oxford,
        UK: Oxford University Press.

        Corum, A., and D. Levit. 2019. Corporate control activism. Journal of Financial
        Economics 133:1–17.

        Dalkir, E., M. Dalkir, and D. Levit. 2019. Freeze-out mergers. Review of Financial Studies
        32:3266–297.




        16


i                                                                                                        i


    i                                                                                                i
    i                                                                                                 i

        “”Internet Appendix”” — 2021/3/31 — 10:09 — page 17 — #17
i                                                                                                         i

        Activism and Takeovers Online Appendix



        De La Merced, Michael J., David Gelles, and Rachel Abrams. 2014. Seeking the
        right chemistry, drug makers hunt for mergers. The New York Times, April
        22. https://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/04/22/ackman-and-valeant-bid-45-6-billion-for-
        botox-maker/.

        Dewatripont, M., and J. Tirole. 2005. Modes of Communication. Journal of Political
        Economy 113: 1217-1238.

        Edmans, A. and C. Holderness. 2017. Blockholders: A survey of theory and evidence. In
        Handbook of the Economics of Corporate Governance, ed. B. Hermalin and M. Weisbach,
        541–36. Amsterdam, the Netherlands: Elsevier.

        Ekmekci, M., and N. Kos. 2016. Information in tender offers with a large shareholder.
        Econometrica 84:87–139.

        Faure-Grimaud, A., and D. Gromb. 2004. Public trading and private incentives. Review
        of Financial Studies 17:985–1014.

        Gandel, S. 2015. SEC’s Mary Jo White criticizes shareholder activism and Bill Ackman
        deal. Fortune Magazine, March 19. https://www.securexfilings.com/secs-mary-jo-white-
        criticizes-shareholder-activism-bill-ackman-deal/.

        Gantchev, N. 2013. The costs of shareholder activism: Evidence from a sequential decision
        model. Journal of Financial Economics 107:610–31.

        Grossman, S. and O. Hart. 1980. Takeover bids, the free-rider problem, and the theory of
        the corporation. Bell Journal of Economics 11:42–64.

        Hirshleifer, D., and S. Titman. 1990. Share tendering strategies and the success of hostile
        takeover bids. Journal of Political Economy 98:295–324.

        Kyle, A., and J. Vila. 1991. Noise trading and takeovers. The RAND Journal of
        Economics 22:54–71.

        Kahn, C., and A. Winton. 1998. Ownership structure, speculation, and shareholder
        intervention. Journal of Finance 53:99–129.

        Marquez, R., and B. Yilmaz. 2008. Information and efficiency in tender offers.
        Econometrica 76:1075–1101.

        Maug, E., and K. Rydqvist. 2009. Do shareholders vote strategically? Voting behavior,
        proposal screening, and majority rules. Review of Finance 13:47–79.

        Müller, H., and F. Panunzi. 2004. Tender offers and leverage. Quarterly Journal of
        Economics 119:1217–48.

        Noe, T. 2002. Investor activism and financial market structure. Review of Financial
        Studies 15: 289–318.

        Rhodes-Kropf, M., and D. Robinson. 2008. The market for mergers and the boundaries of
        the firm. Journal of Finance 63:1169–211.

        Winton, A. 1993. Limitation of liability and the ownership structure of the firm. Journal
        of Finance 48:487–512.

        Yarrow, G. 1985. Shareholder protection, compulsory acquisition and the efficiency of the
        takeover process. Journal of Industrial Economics 34:3–16.




                                                                                                17


i                                                                                                         i


    i                                                                                                 i
