   NO. 1030
SEPTEMBER 2022
                 Leader-Follower Dynamics
   REVISED
  JULY 2025      in Shareholder Activism
                 Doruk Cetemen | Gonzalo Cisternas | Aaron Kolb |
                 S. Viswanathan
Leader-Follower Dynamics in Shareholder Activism
Doruk Cetemen, Gonzalo Cisternas, Aaron Kolb, and S. Viswanathan
Federal Reserve Bank of New York Staff Reports, no. 1030
September 2022; revised July 2025
JEL classification: D82, G14, G23




                                                 Abstract

We propose a theory of coordination and influence among blockholders. Privately informed activists time
their trades in sequence to lower acquisition costs, prompting a strategic use of order flows. Leader
activists create trading gains for their followers, ultimately influencing their willingness to bear greater
value-enhancing intervention costs. Through this channel, informed trades can exhibit predictability, in
sharp contrast with Kyle (1985). We explain how this novel predictability shapes free-rider problems
affecting governance, and how it produces price abnormalities analogous to those documented
empirically. We also uncover how private information interdependence can be a key catalyst for the
mechanism studied.

Key words: activism, insider trading, blockholders, hedge funds




_________________

Cisternas: Federal Reserve Bank of New York (email: gonzalo.cisternas@ny.frb.org). Cetemen:
Department of Economics, Royal Holloway University of London (email: doruk.cetemen@rhul.ac.uk).
Kolb: Kelley School of Business, Indiana University (email: kolba@indiana.edu). Vishwanathan: Fuqua
School of Business, Duke University (email: viswanat@duke.edu). This paper was previously circulated
under the titles “Activist Manipulation Dynamics” and “Activist Trading Dynamics.” The authors thank
Leonid Kogan, editor, an anonymous associate editor, and two anonymous referees for numerous
comments that greatly improved this paper. They also thank Alon Brav, Niclas Carlson, Peter DeMarzo,
Nathan Kaplan, Erik Madsen, Adolfo de Motta, Debraj Ray, and participants in presentations at Baruch
College, Bielefeld, Carnegie Mellon-Pittsburgh, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, FIRS Vancouver
(2023), FTG Stockholm Summer School (2023), Insead, Miami University, New York University (Econ),
SAET (2024), SITE (2022), Texas A&M, Universidad Catolica de Chile, and Universidad de Chile for
useful discussions and comments, as well as Saketh Prazad for excellent research assistance. Kolb
acknowledges financial support from the Philpott Faculty Fellowship at Indiana University.

This paper presents preliminary findings and is being distributed to economists and other interested
readers solely to stimulate discussion and elicit comments. The views expressed in this paper are those of
the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the position of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or the
Federal Reserve System. Any errors or omissions are the responsibility of the author(s).
To view the authors’ disclosure statements, visit
https://www.newyorkfed.org/research/staff_reports/sr1030.html.
1       Introduction
The theories of blockholders have proven key to understanding free-rider effects when owner-
ship is dispersed (Shleifer and Vishny, 1986), the impact of market liquidity on governance by
voice (Maug, 1998), and the role of disposing of shares in disciplining management (Edmans,
2009; Admati and Pfleiderer, 2009). However, the fundamental question of how activist
blockholders gear towards intervening in firms, anticipating that other investors think alike,
and can be influenced, is much less understood. This paper proposes a theory of influence
dynamics between blockholders: one that operates through market signals.
    The empirical relevance of multi-activist interventions is reflected in the increased preva-
lence of events featuring multiple hedge funds engaging with the same target (e.g., Becht
et al., 2017). In the U.S., this form of coordination has coincided with three trends in the
activism ecosystem: an increase in institutional investors’ ownership share of corporations; a
regulatory environment that permits substantial communication among shareholders while
imposing significant restrictions for formally organized groups; and an increased focus on
higher market-capitalization firms as targets, as well as on more specialized forms of inter-
ventions. 1 As activism costs grow—both to acquire sizable blocks and to perform the actual
restructurings—blockholder coordination becomes a key cost-management tool. 2 While the
prevailing regulation facilitates a common understanding of potential targets and of the
incentives at play, at the same time it discourages the use of explicit agreements.
    In this paper, we show how this coordination can be achieved non-cooperatively. Our
premise is that, to control costs, activists can have strong incentives to time their trades
in sequence; but this means that any “leader activist” will inevitably use market signals to
credibly communicate with “follower activists” to acquire a larger share and be more inclined
to improve firms. Concretely, two activists decide how much stake to (de-)accumulate in a
market structure à la Kyle (1985)—for simplicity, private information is about initial blocks
and firm value is determined by effort choices, as in Back et al. (2018). To this baseline
setting, we add block interdependence: the activists’ initial positions exhibit correlation—for
instance, if positive, because of similar investment styles. Further, trading is sequential: in
    1
      Brav et al. (2021b) argues that low-hanging fruit—targets suffering from issues that can be fixed with
standard governance tactics—has been exhausted post financial crisis. As a result, activism as an invest-
ment strategy has matured along three dimensions: an increased reliance on industry consultants that help
guide interventions; the production and dissemination of detailed analyses about targeted firms; and the
development of expertise specific to particular industries. See Section 3.2.3 in their paper for examples.
    2
      Salesforce was a target in 2022 when its valuation was around $130B; crucially, none of the five activists
involved reached 5% ownership, or $6.5B—https://finance.yahoo.com/news/salesforces-activis
t-investors-who-are-they-and-what-do-they-want-174655497.html. Regarding activism expenses
other than block-building costs, Gantchev (2013) finds that activists’ entire campaigns can add up to a total
of $10M, while Albuquerque et al. (2022) estimate intervention costs at $2.43M.



                                                       2
the first period, a leader (she) activist acts as the unique informed trader, anticipating that a
follower (he) will play that role in the second period. After the activists finalize their blocks
through these trades, both simultaneously exert effort in line with their terminal positions
to determine the firm’s share (fundamental) value.
    This setup and the variations that we study constitute the first framework for examining
block accumulation dynamics when multiple activists intervene in firms and impose external-
ities on each other. We use our model to offer new insights regarding trading around activism
events; to derive new predictions about the quality of corporate governance as orchestrated
by leader activists; and to provide new interpretations of existing empirical findings.

Trading In traditional microstructure models such as Kyle (1985), it is price impact that
limits an investor’s incentive to exploit an informational advantage when trading in a firm’s
stock. With endogenous fundamentals and multiple traders, there is now a second channel:
creating trading gains that entice fellow activists to accumulate more shares, and thus to
find it optimal to bear more of the value-generating activism costs.
    The follower’s trading gains are measured by how far the market price—a belief about
the activists’ effort choices based on the public order flow—departs from the follower’s own
belief about the firm’s value; this belief depends not only on his initial block, but also on
the order flow, which conveys information about the leader’s contribution. This difference
in beliefs—a form of mispricing—now enters the leader’s calculations: she not only balances
her trading gains with the cost of driving the price against herself, but she also evaluates
how her trades affect the inference made by the follower vis-á-vis that of the market maker.
    Correlation plays a key role in resolving this trade-off. If positive, an abnormally high
first-period order flow indicates to the market maker not only a large contribution by the
leader, but also that the follower will follow suit; instead, due to his private information, the
follower only updates about the leader’s effort. Thus, the price is more responsive to the first-
period order flow than the follower’s belief about the firm is, while the opposite occurs with
negative correlation: the price increases less because the market maker’s updates on each
activist’s effort move in opposite directions. With prices that are relatively more responsive,
buying more aggressively is more costly than when price impact is the only disciplinary force,
as such trades now also discourage the follower from building a larger stake—and vice-versa.
    Theorem 1 formalizes this logic by uncovering a linear equilibrium in which activists
with larger initial blocks accumulate more shares in relative terms than their smaller-block
counterparts, as in Kyle-type models where insiders with more optimistic signals about a
firm’s fundamentals naturally acquire more stock. The novelty of our equilibrium, however,
is that the leader’s trades are no longer neutral: the leader sells on average when correlation is
positive and buys otherwise. That is, being able to influence other blockholders using market

                                                3
signals does not merely translate into more or less aggressive trading while preserving the
pervasive property in Kyle (1985) that trades are unpredictable: if activism is at play, the
nature of strategic trading fundamentally changes. This finding thus alters the conventional
wisdom of insider trading models reinforced over decades following Kyle’s seminal work.

Private information Our choice of private initial positions is empirically relevant for three
reasons: hedge funds’ stakes are typically small; so-called “under the threshold” campaigns
have been on the rise; and large-cap firms are becoming more frequent targets. 3 That said,
what matters for our result is that private information has interdependence—the activists
know more about each other—and not particularly where it comes from. Indeed, if initial
blocks are public, qualitatively identical results arise if private information is about exogenous
components of firms’ values or about the activists’ productivity in improving firms.
    In turn, a non-trivial degree of interdependence is important solely due to the minimal
assumptions imposed on the timing of trades and players’ payoffs. In fact, if both activists
trade simultaneously over two rounds, or they impose other types of externalities on each
other (e.g., losing private benefits) the same phenomenon can arise even when initial positions
are uncorrelated. Section 3.2 examines these and other robustness checks.

Governance and price abnormalities From an institutional perspective, the way to
interpret our finding on average trades is that a leader’s accumulation of shares may depart
meaningfully from its counterpart when intervening in isolation: in particular, when cor-
relation is positive, a leader with a sufficiently large block will still buy shares, but not as
aggressively. Importantly, by building a smaller block than she would otherwise, the leader
effectively offloads activism costs on the follower, imposing a form of externality that the fol-
lower finds optimal to bear; and if correlation is negative, the leader incentivizes the follower
by herself accumulating more shares and bearing greater activism expenses.
    Because terminal positions determine effort provision, trading has non-trivial implications
for both the quality of corporate governance and stock prices. On the first front, note that
since the follower does not change his position on average (due to not having the opportunity
to influence any subsequent activist), all non-trivial implications for firm values are linked to
the leader’s behavior: when correlation is positive (negative) the leader lowers (increases) firm
value relative to the counterfactual world in which blocks do not change on average. That is,
with positive interdependence, a first-mover advantage in trading amplifies traditional free-
rider effects, but not otherwise. Irrespective of the inefficiencies created, however, multiplayer
interactions always deliver more value than their single-player counterparts (Theorem 2).
   3
    We expand on the importance of smaller blocks on Section 2.2. Campaigns with blocks below 5% were
majority in the U.S. in 2021 and the targets had higher market capitalization. See https://www.cnbc.com/2
022/01/15/activist-hedge-funds-launched-89-campaigns-in-2021-heres-how-they-fared.html.


                                                   4
    On the second front, the model naturally delivers measures of abnormality analogous to
those documented empirically. The idea is to note that if activism opportunities are absent
(i.e., fundamentals appear as exogenous), and hence trading is based solely on exploiting
informational advantages, trades are expected to be unpredictable: in such “normal times,”
positions should not change on average. We can then cast our predictions regarding firm
value in “price” form: if correlation is positive, prices are predicted to be abnormally low on
average (and vice-versa) relative to counterfactual periods when activism is not at play. In
Section 4.2, we explain how this logic can be used to reinterpret existing empirical findings on
price behavior around disclosure events—we also discuss the current evidence that is closest
to our proposed mechanism and predictions, and provide directions for how the empirical
literature on blockholders and trading can incorporate our results going forward.

First-mover advantages Section 5 examines factors that favor the sequential trading
structure studied. As we show, there is a sizable region of correlation levels (both positive and
negative) over which both activists are individually better off than if trading simultaneously:
coordinating the timing of trades is mutually beneficial because acquisition costs are lowered
in less competitive settings. 4 With significant negative correlation, however, an activist
may prefer to trade simultaneously with a fellow activist because the latter always provides
inexpensive liquidity when needed. On the other hand, an increasing positive correlation
enhances the leader’s ability to influence the follower’s trading gains, so moving first is even
more desirable—at the expense of follower profits relative to the simultaneous-move case.
    The bottom line is that a leader is more likely to emerge when there is similarity among
activists, in a block-statistical sense. Further, if the interdependence is positive, the benefit
of acting as a leader is enhanced by three factors. First, by having a larger initial block,
because this indicates that the follower has a large block too, and hence that he will place
sizable trades that exacerbate acquisition costs. Second, by the presence of multiple small
followers, because these will aggressively compete to exploit trading gains. Third, by actually
being capable of intervening in firms: if the leader is a passive fund that cannot exert effort,
she can be trapped into an inferior outcome when trying to influence the follower.

Discussion We conclude the paper with two discussions. In the first, institutionally moti-
vated, we touch on the so-called “wolf pack” activism phenomenon whereby multiple hedge
funds attack the same firm in a parallel, seemingly independent, manner after a leader fund
acquires a stake. Our model fits many of its features: trading gains matter, in that targets are
undervalued firms; blocks are similar, of small to moderate size; behavior is non-cooperative
   4
     This is of great importance for activists, partly because acquisition and activism costs reinforce each
other: only after acquiring a maningful block does an incentive to spend resources to change a firm emerge.


                                                     5
due to the high costs of acting as a formal group; there are followers who do not disclose
positions, and hence necessarily have smaller stakes; and there is strong competition at the
moment of trading. But our model can also be used to shed light on the real consequences of
this inherently secretive phenomenon, where moves are naturally sequential and hence mak-
ing correct inferences can be key—the recent 2023 SEC guidance on “tipping” and group
formation will likely make market signals an even more powerful coordinating device.
    Second, we address the possibility of other equilibria in which the activists trade against
their initial positions to coordinate with each other in terms of creating or destroying value.
Despite this being an interesting theoretical possibility, we argue that these equilibria are
less suitable for predicting “positive” activism in practice. Further, we provide conditions
under which the equilibrium that we study is the unique prediction within the linear class.

Roadmap We discuss the theoretical literature next. Section 2 presents our model, while
Section 3 contains our main result. Section 4 is devoted to the model’s predictions and
connects them with existing empirical work. Section 5 discusses first-mover advantages and
the institutional environment, wolf packs included. Section 6 discusses other equilibria and
a refinement result. All proofs are in the Appendix or Internet Appendix.

Related literature Our research has been influenced by the “program” proposed by Ed-
mans and Holderness (2017), who highlighted that only models with either one activist
building stakes in isolation, or with multiple activists where blocks are fixed, have been
studied. Going forward, they suggest considering blocks under 5%; that blockholders inter-
act, imposing externalities on each other; that they can act as informed traders; and that
activists’ costs and benefits beyond those related to controlling firms matter.
    We are not aware of other papers combining these elements in dynamic settings. For
instance, in Back et al. (2018)—a fully dynamic single-activist version of Kyle (1985)—
different activism technologies can have non-trivial implications for market liquidity, but
equilibrium trading is always unpredictable. And while there are models involving multiple
activists, these feature simultaneous moves among them: in Doidge et al. (2021) activists
trade non-cooperatively only once to then act as a coalition when exerting effort; in Edmans
and Manso (2011), competition strengthens the threat of disciplinary trading; and in Brav
et al. (2021a), reputational motives can lead hedge funds to exert effort to attract funding.
Crucially, none of these papers consider the incentives to induce others to develop skin in
the game as a means of controlling private costs or increasing private benefits.
    Our model is one of activism by “voice”—direct interventions—because effort determines
firm value. In contrast to models of “exit,” where disposing of shares acts as an ex post
disciplinary threat, in our model disposing of shares induces other activists to exert voice.


                                              6
This notion of shares’ disposal favoring voice relates to models where selling by liquidity
(or “noise”) traders facilitates block formation and activism (e.g., Maug, 1998; Kahn and
Winton, 1998). Gantchev and Jotikasthira (2018) corroborate this finding for activist hedge
funds when institutional investors sell due to negative funding shocks. Instead, in our model,
it is an activist who strategically creates favorable market conditions for others.
     Activists not only influence firms, but also play a key role in the market for corporate
control. In Burkart and Lee (2022), activists who first launch costly campaigns, and then
broker takeovers, can mitigate free-rider problems by both target shareholders and activists
themselves. Similarly, in Corum and Levit (2019), activists can launch costly proxy contests
to lower acquisition costs and trigger ownership transfers that would not have happened
otherwise—in our model, the leader both bears direct activism costs (say, launching a cam-
paign) and sacrifices trading gains to induce the follower to improve governance. See also
Burkart et al. (2000), where an incumbent wants to sell the majority of her shares to limit
a bidder’s incentive to extract value-dissipating private benefits after acquiring control.
     Finally, our model relates to models focusing on strategies of a more “manipulative
nature”: steering someone’s real action by influencing their beliefs. In models of trading,
Goldstein and Guembel (2008) show that short-selling is a profitable strategy for a speculator
if it induces a manager to forgo an investment decision; but buy orders are never fruitful
there. In Attari et al. (2006), a passive fund may dump shares to insure the value of the
remaining block, as activism by a second investor has positive returns only when a firm’s
fundamentals are low. In Khanna and Mathews (2012), a blockholder instead buys shares
to counter a speculator’s attempt to lower a firm’s value. In contrast to these papers, all of
our players directly influence firm values, and both buying or selling can be optimal. 5
     Beyond financial markets, Holmström (1999), Cisternas (2018), Bonatti and Cisternas
(2020), Cetemen (2020), Cetemen et al. (2019), Ekmekci et al. (2020) and Cisternas and
Kolb (2024) develop models of belief manipulation employing Gaussian fundamentals. A key
novelty of our model is that noisier signals (here, order flows) can lead to more manipulation,
despite beliefs (here, prices) becoming less responsive. This is because the leader’s marginal
incentive to manipulate beliefs—captured by her terminal block—is endogenous.


2       Model
We first introduce our baseline model and the type of equilibrium studied. Subsequently, in
Section 2.2 we discuss our assumptions in light of the institutional evidence on activism and
    5
     See Yang and Zhu (2021), Boleslavsky et al. (2017), and Ahnert et al. (2020), for models where trad-
ing can trigger government interventions, while Chakraborty and Yılmaz (2004), Brunnermeier (2005) and
Williams and Skrzypacz (2020) for manipulation in financial markets abstracting from real consequences.


                                                   7
anticipate how our results extend to situations when some of the assumptions are relaxed.


2.1    Setup
A leader activist (she) and a follower counterpart (he) hold initial positions X0L ∈ R and
X0F ∈ R of shares in a firm, respectively. Each activist’s block is their private information:
the prior is that blocks are normally distributed with mean µ > 0, variance φ > 0, and with
covariance ρ; by definition, this latter variable can take values in [−φ, φ] only.
    The model has three periods. In period 1, the leader acts as a single informed trader
in a Kyle (1985) market structure. Specifically, she submits an order for θL ∈ R units of
the firm’s stock to a competitive market maker who executes it at a public price P1 after
observing the total order flow of the form

                                        Ψ1 = θL + σZ1 .

In this specification, Z1 is standard normal random variable independent of the initial posi-
tions that captures noise traders, and the volatility σ > 0 is a commonly known scalar.
    Having observed P1 , in period 2, the follower replaces the leader as the single informed
trader in an identical round of trading: he orders θF ∈ R units from the same market maker
who in turn executes the order at a (public) price P2 after observing the total order flow

                                        Ψ2 = θF + σZ2 ,

where Z2 is standard normal and independent of (X0L , X0F , Z1 ). Finally, in period 3, the
activists simultaneously take actions that determine the firm’s fundamentals: activist i exerts
effort W i ∈ R at a private cost 21 (W i )2 , i ∈ {L, F }, resulting in a true share value of

                                       W = WL + WF.

(That is, absent any activism, the share value is common knowledge and normalized to zero.)
   Towards stating our players’ payoffs, let us use the subscript T to capture terminal
positions, which for each activist consists of initial positions plus the amount traded:

                                  XTi = X0i + θi , i ∈ {L, F }.                              (1)

We also let (Ft )t=0,1,2 denote the public information—which is generated by the prior and
the order flows (Ψt )t=1,2 —and we use the indices t(L) := 1 and t(F ) := 2 to link our activists



                                               8
with their corresponding trading periods. Activist i ∈ {L, F } then solves
                                                                                              
                                            −i                       1
                                     i
                                                     XTi − Pt(i) θi − (W i )2 |X0i , Ft(i)−1
                                                 
                     sup E          W +W                                                           ,     (2)
                     θi ,W i                                          2

where the first term is the total value of activist i’s holdings, from which trading costs
(second term) and activism expenses (third term) are subtracted. Further, because the
optimal choice of effort satisfies W i = XTi , i ∈ {L, F }, the objective (2) can be written as
                                                                                   
                                                        1
               sup E       (XTi + XT−i )XTi − Pt(i) θi − (XTi )2 |X0i , Ft(i)−1         , i ∈ {L, F }.   (3)
                θi                                              2

    Two observations are in order. First, because individual effort is based on an activist’s
own terminal position, larger blocks translate into a stronger willingness to intervene; but at
the same time, there is a collective-action problem because the positive effect of individual
effort on the other blockholder’s holdings is not internalized. Second, note that the model
allows for short positions (X0i < 0) and negative effort, the latter capturing value destruction
or negative activism—we discuss this possibility in Sections 3.2 and 6. 6 Unless otherwise
stated, however, we focus on the opposite situation by assuming µ > 0 and using the cases
X0L > 0 and X0F > 0 to provide intuition: the activists are initially “long” on the firm and,
absent any trading, they would exert positive effort, both conditionally and unconditionally.

Linear Strategies and Equilibrium Concept As is traditional in the literature follow-
ing Kyle (1985), we will look for equilibria in linear strategies. This means two things. First,
our leader will condition on her type X0L and the prior mean µ (used by the market maker
to set the firm’s price) in a linear manner, while our follower can, in addition, condition on
the observed first-period price. That is, we seek strategies of the form

                       θL = αL X0L + δL µ and θF = αF X0F + βF P1 + δF µ,                                (4)

where the coefficients (αL , δL , αF , βF , δF ) are scalars. Second, the price Pt(i) set by the market
maker is affine in the order flow Ψt(i) , i = L, F . In an equilibrium of this kind, (i) the trading
strategies are mutual best-responses given the pricing rule, and (ii) the linear prices satisfy
Pt(i) = E[W L + W F |Ft(i) ] when the expectation is computed using the activists’ strategies
(4). In what follows, we omit the linear qualifier when referring to an equilibrium.
    We focus on equilibria exhibiting αL > 0 and αF > 0, or positive block sensitivity (PBS),
   6
     See Bliss et al. (2019) for examples of negative activism, and Appel and Fos (2023) for short campaigns
run by hedge funds. Refer to https://www.cnbc.com/2019/12/13/reliving-the-carl-icahn-and-bill
-ackman-herbalife-feud-on-cnbc.html for a famous case in which investors took opposite positions.



                                                            9
both for conceptual and institutional reasons. On the first front, this type of equilibrium
conforms with the literature following Kyle (1985), where an insider trades in proportion
to her informational advantage: or “trading gains,” as measured by the difference between
her private and the public information before trading, which is a measure of mispricing.
Thus, such trades are zero conditional on the public information, which for our leader would
amount to αL = −δL . This form of unpredictability is a pervasive finding in this literature,
which treats fundamentals as exogenous. 7 But it also holds with endogenity if there are
multiple rounds of trading in single-player setups (e.g., Back et al., 2018), or if there are
multiple players in static settings (e.g., Doidge et al., 2021). Our model, combining endoge-
nous fundamentals, multiple players, and dynamics, will prove fundamentally different—the
notion of PBS equilibrium is the appropriate one for making this distinction.
    Economically, in this equilibrium, larger blockholders acquire more stock, or de-accumulate
less, than their smaller counterparts: trading solidifies their a priori stronger willingness to
intervene, leading to more value added in relative terms. While equilibria placing a nega-
tive weight on the initial block can also exist sometimes (Section 6), they exhibit two key
features: (i) strong position reversals can happen and (ii) these reversals can be driven by
monetizing value destruction. From an institutional viewpoint then, such equilibria are less
suited for capturing positive activism—the more prevalent phenomenon and our main focus.


2.2     Discussion
That our game ends after the third period can be seen as the firm’s true value becoming public
after effort is undertaken. Since it takes time to change a firm, one may then wonder whether
not allowing for multiple “pre-revelation” rounds of trading is a limitation. Our belief is that
this is not the case, for two reasons. First, since activists must reveal their intended plans
when disclosing positions over 5%, substantial information about action plans gets revealed
well ahead of changes materializing. Second, these disclosures also contain information about
trades, revealing that hedge funds trade primarily on the day they cross the 5% threshold—
the “trigger date”—or the one after (e.g., Bebchuk et al., 2013 and Collin-Dufresne and Fos,
2015). Thus, trades leading to block completion are not spread out.
    Importantly, these trades often happen before the market learns activists’ intentions and
trades. This is because material adjustments to positions or intentions can be disclosed with
a delay—historically, up to 10 days—so trades effectively remain hidden for some time as
    7
      See Back et al. (2018) for a discussion on this topic, where the term “inconspicuous insider trading” is
used. This property holds for Gaussian exogenous fundamentals: with any number of traders and degree of
correlation in private information (e.g., Foster and Viswanathan, 1996 and Back et al., 2000); that evolve
over time (e.g., Caldentey and Stacchetti, 2010); or where volatility is stochastic (e.g., Collin-Dufresne and
Fos, 2016). But it can also arise if the fundamentals are time-invariant and non-Gaussian (e.g., Back, 1992).


                                                     10
in our setup. 8 Our model is then best interpreted as taking place in such a pre-disclosure
window when the activists have superior information and are gearing up to quickly finalize
their positions and attack. A key question is how block completion by a leader hedge fund
responds to the possibility of subsequent followers building their own stakes, and what the
implications for stock prices are; we will discuss the latter topic in Section 4.
    Having offered a broad interpretation of our model, we now turn to our key assumptions.

Private information and interdependence Because blocks below 5% need not be dis-
closed, they can constitute private information. 9 Hedge fund ownership fluctuates around
this threshold: Brav et al. (2021b) find that their median stake is 6.6% upon disclosure, while
Collin-Dufresne and Fos (2015) state that, to complete their blocks (e.g., to reach 6.6%),
hedge funds purchase around 1% of shares on the day that the 5% threshold is crossed—of
course, these numbers do not include all the (smaller) blocks that are not disclosed. Impor-
tantly, blockholders in the 1%–5% range can have substantial power: Lewellen and Lewellen
(2022) document that this segment collectively owns around 22% of shares in the average
firm compared to an aggregate 20% for blockholders above 5%. Furthermore, in line with
our assumptions, these authors also show that smaller blockholders are more likely to trade.
     Conceptually speaking, assuming private information about initial blocks is simply one
among several possibilities through which our mechanism of influence can emerge. Indeed,
what really matters is that the activists have (i) some form of payoff-relevant private infor-
mation that (ii) has interdependence. Regarding the first requirement, observe that as long
as trades are hidden, an activist’s terminal position will also be their private information;
but terminal positions determine the firm’s value. This means that the activists effectively
have long-term private information regarding the firm’s value, and can profitably trade on
it, even if their initial blocks are public. 10 Section 3.2 formalizes this idea by examining two
extensions that deliver the same predictions as our baseline model: the activists are privately
informed about an exogenous component of the firm’s value, or about their cost of effort.
     In turn, the second requirement of correlation is key to enable the leader to influence
the follower using the order flow despite the market maker also responding to it. While we
discuss this topic extensively in the next section, two observations are in order here. First,
correlation is necessary only because of our minimal assumptions on the structure of trading
    8
      Recently, the traditional disclosure requirement for activists to file a 13D form within 10 days after
crossing the 5% threshold has been shortened to 5 business days, while material amendments must be filed
within 2 business days: https://www.sec.gov/news/press-release/2023-219.
    9
      An exception is when a fund holds more than 100 million in shares of publicly traded firms, in which
case a form 13F must be filed, even if there is no intention to intervene. As this form is filed quarterly, blocks
in this category can be hidden over even longer horizons (e.g., Puckett and Yan, 2011).
   10
      In the words of Collin-Dufresne and Fos (2015), the activists have private information about their
willingness to intervene; in our case, this is an intensive margin.


                                                       11
and players’ payoffs. To make this point, Section 3.2 presents two variations in which initial
blocks are uncorrelated, yet the mechanism uncovered is at play: two rounds of trading
with both activists placing orders in each round, and an example in which the leader’s effort
imposes a negative externality on the follower (such as the loss of private benefits).
    Second, assuming block correlation can be a useful avenue for testing the predictions of
our model. Indeed, because both the sign and magnitude of the correlation have non-trivial
effects on prices, existing empirical work on blockholder interdependence could be redirected
towards contrasting the model’s prediction regarding prices with the empirical evidence on
price abnormality documented in several studies. We elaborate on this in Section 4.2.

Payoffs Assuming that efforts are perfect substitutes in the fundamentals’ technology is
a natural benchmark for examining how the well-known free-rider problems that arise when
ownership is dispersed are affected by an activist’s first-mover advantage. Further, as Burkart
and Lee (2022) note, our choice of a continuous effort variable can be seen as capturing
different types of interventions available that in turn require different levels of activist en-
gagement. 11 And while many outcomes can be binary, our model can be seen as a linearized
version of such settings where the probability of success increases in total effort.
    On the other hand, our choice of quadratic activism costs is in line with the tradition
of trading costs in Kyle-type models. However, as Back et al. (2018) have recently shown,
moving away from this case can yield new insights through the implied convexity/concavity
of effort as a function of an activist’s terminal block. Because our main results will be
about mean variables (e.g., expected firm value), we expect them to hold as long as such
an effort function continues to be increasing, the linear case being the simplest. In fact,
a key takeaway of our analysis is that we uncover a novel finding regarding the nature of
strategic trading (Theorem 1) that does not rely on technological considerations, but instead
on a natural property: past orders and future terminal positions across players are strategic
complements. This can be seen clearly in the value of the leader’s holdings, (XTL + XTF )XTL ,
in (3). In particular, the higher the leader’s terminal position, the more she benefits from
inducing a higher position by the follower, because the extra value is applied to more shares.

Sequential trades It is often argued that activists reaching the 5% threshold want to act
fast to avoid block acquisition becoming too costly. Brav et al. (2008) argue that “[other]
hedge funds frequently acquire significant stakes in targets within hours of learning that an
initial fund has taken a position” (p. 1757). In turn, Wong (2020) shows that in events
where activist hedge funds complete their blocks on the trigger date, there is 36% more ab-
  11
      Non-trivial intensive margins are also at play when activism focuses on reallocating resources: see Brav
et al. (2015) and Brav et al. (2018) in the case of production plants and patents, respectively.


                                                     12
normality in trading by other investors on the same day—a correlation between competition
and rapid completion. These threats come not only from hedge funds, but also insiders (e.g.,
Chabakauri et al., 2025) and other investors through brokers (e.g., Di Maggio et al., 2019).
    The sequential structure is thus natural, and also supported by our earlier discussion
of (i) an average of 1% shares outstanding being purchased during the disclosure window,
and (ii) most of these purchases happening on the trigger date: the sizable purchases make
evading competition of utmost importance, and such purchases are indeed completed fast. 12
Section 5 is devoted to examining competitive effects and the incentives to move first.


3     Activist Trading
In this section we derive the equilibrium trading strategies for our activists. We note that
finding equilibria in environments exhibiting strategic block accumulation and endogenous
firm values is in general a difficult task—this issue has been noted before in the literature,
and is presumably behind the scarcity of results in the area when it comes to multiplayer
analyses. 13 To these features, we are adding interdependent private information and trades
that occur in sequence, which make the environment asymmetric across traders.


3.1     Equilibrium Construction and Main Result
The first step for finding the coefficients in the activists’ strategies is to compute the players’
beliefs about each other under the assumption that their counterparties are following linear
trading strategies: the market maker’s beliefs about the firm’s value XTL + XTF determine
prices, and hence the activists’ costs of block acquisition; in turn, each activist needs to
predict how the other one trades—based on a private block—to correctly assess their trading
gains. With normally distributed blocks and noise, as well as linear strategies, these beliefs
are routine applications of the traditional projection theorem for Gaussian random variables.

Lemma 1. Suppose that the activists follow (4). Prior to trading, the firm’s share price is

                                          µ(2 + αL + αF + δL + δF )
                                   P0 =                             ,                                     (5)
                                                   1 − βF
   12
      A goal of 6% ownership once crossing 5% facilitates quick block completion. While smaller blocks reflect
hedge funds’ desire to only influence firms, this choice is also driven by important ownership costs above
10%: the “short swing rule” (Section 16(b) of the Securities Act) can force a hedge fund to return any profits
from reversal trades over a 6 month period; also, insider trader rules put limitations on trading.
   13
      See Edmans and Holderness (2017, pp. 579, 625) on the importance of making trades depend on block
size in blockholder models, and how the binary firm values typically assumed for tractability in corporate
finance models implicitly restrict trades to exogenous amounts independent of initial blocks.


                                                     13
while each activist updates their belief about the other’s initial position as Y0i := E[X0−i |X0i ] =
                                                    2
µ + φρ (X0i − µ) and ν0i := Var(X0−i |X0i ) = φ − ρφ , i ∈ {L, F }. Subsequently:

   • At t = 1, the leader’s trade is executed at a price P1 which obeys

                                   P1 = P0 + Λ1 [Ψ1 − (αL + δL )µ] , where                             (6)
                                              αL φ      1 + αL + ρ(1 + αF )/φ
                                   Λ1 :=    2       2
                                                      ×                       .                        (7)
                                           αL φ + σ            1 − βF

        Meanwhile, the follower updates his belief about the leader’s terminal position using Ψ1
        too. We denote this belief Y1F := E[XTL |X0F , Ψ1 ], which satisfies

                                                      (1 + αL )αL ν0F 
                     Y1F = (1 + αL )Y0F + δL µ +                        Ψ1 − (αL Y0F + δL µ) .         (8)
                                                        αL2 ν0F + σ 2

   • At t = 2 the follower’s trade is executed at a price P2 which obeys

                               P2 = P1 + Λ2 [Ψ2 − αF M1F − βF P1 − δF µ], where                        (9)
                                      αF γ F
                               Λ2 := 2 F 1 2 × [1 + αF + ρ1 (1 + αL )/γ1F ].                          (10)
                                    αF γ1 + σ

        In (9)–(10), M1F and γ1F denote the mean and variance of the market maker’s belief
        about the follower’s initial position given Ψ1 , while ρ1 denotes the contemporaneous
        updated covariance of initial positions (see (A.3) and (A.4) in the Appendix).

    The initial price P0 is what the leader is quoted before placing an order: it results from
the market maker’s forecast of the activists’ terminal positions under (4) and the prior belief
about initial blocks absent any trading. 14 Importantly, its denominator encodes a feedback
effect from the financial market to the firm’s fundamentals: from a time-zero perspective,
if higher first-period prices lead to more purchases by the follower, the firm becomes more
valuable, which further reinforces the price, and so forth. Finally, observe that due to the
interdependence at play, the activists must also adjust their prior beliefs about each other
before any trading happens: they do so by adjusting their prior using their private blocks,
which results in a new mean and variance denoted Y0i and ν0i , respectively, i ∈ {L, F }.
    At t = 1, the quoted price P0 is adjusted in response to the realized order flow Ψ1 —
which the market maker assumes is driven by the leader’s linear strategy in (4), or Ψ1 =
αL X0L + δL µ + σZ1 —resulting in the execution price P1 that the leader must pay—see (6). In
this expression, the price updates in the direction of the unanticipated order flow from the
  14
       Use that P0 = E[(1 + αL )X0L + δL µ + (1 + αF )X0F + βF P1 + δF µ|F0 ] and E[P1 |F0 ] = P0 .


                                                       14
market maker’s perspective, or Ψ1 − E[Ψ1 |F0 ] = Ψ1 − (αL + δL )µ. Meanwhile, the intensity
of the response, Λ1 —or price impact, given by (7)—is deterministic and computed using the
regression coefficient formula

                                               Cov(XTL + XTF , Ψt )
                                        Λt =                                                              (11)
                                                   Var[Ψt ]

applied to t = 1. Readers familiar with Kyle (1985) will recognize the first ratio in the
right-hand side of (7) as the price impact expression if the firm’s true value were exogenous
according to the leader’s initial position. The second ratio is due to the firm’s fundamentals
being endogenous via trading: the numerator encodes the leader’s contribution (1 + αL
term) and to what extent, depending on the correlation, her trades signal a commensurate
contribution by the follower (ρ(1 + αF )/φ term); in turn, the denominator encodes the
aforementioned feedback effect of the stock price directly affecting fundamentals through
the follower’s trading choices, which shape his effort decision.
    Importantly, the follower must also update about the leader at this stage to correctly
forecast the firm’s value. This is encoded in the follower’s belief Y1F in (8), which revises
his initial forecast of the leader’s terminal position, (1 + αL )Y0F + δL µ, using the realized
first-period order flow Ψ1 ; we will return shortly to this belief, which plays an important role
in our analysis. As the follower enters the second period with this estimate, he is quoted a
price P1 per share, which the market maker updates in response to the realized second-period
order flow under the assumption that Ψ2 = αF X0F + βF P1 + δF µ + σZ2 . This results in the
execution price P2 , as in (9), that the follower pays. The logic is exactly as before. First,
the unanticipated order flow now requires predicting the follower’s trade: the market maker
resorts to (M1F , γ1F ) that estimates the follower’s initial block given Ψ1 . 15 Second, price
impact Λ2 is again derived from (11) using the follower’s strategy driving Ψ2 and updated
covariance ρ1 and variance γ1 terms: the first ratio in (10) is the analog of the first ratio in
(7), while the second term relates to the firm’s value being affected by trading—the absence
of a denominator is due to the leader not trading again in this baseline model (i.e., the
feedback channel operates only through Ψ1 influencing the follower). 16
    Equipped with prices and activists’ beliefs we can set up best-response problems for our
activists. To this end, recall that activist i’s ex post payoff is given by

                                                      1
                       (XTi + XT−i )XTi − Pt(i) θi − (XTi )2 , i ∈ {L, F }.
                       |         {z        }
                        total value of block
                                             | {z }  |2 {z }
                                            trading costs
                                                            activism costs
  15
    This belief differs from the prior (µ, φ) if and only if there is correlation (i.e., if ρ 6= 0).
  16
    All these expressions hold on and off the equilibrium path, as an activist’s trades are hidden from others.
Note also that the leader does not need to update about the follower after observing Ψ2 .

                                                      15
Each activist will then decide how much to trade taking as given (i) its counterparty’s
trading strategy and (ii) prices as in Lemma 1. Letting Ei [·] denote the expectation operator
of activist i at the moment they decide how to trade, and using that Ψt(i) = θi + σZt(i) in the
expressions for prices (6) and (9) when activist i places an order θi , i ∈ {L, F }, the activists’
optimal trades satisfy the following first-order conditions (FOCs):

                   follower :     θF Λ2 = EF [XTF + XTL ] − EF [P2 ],
                                                                                ∂EL [XTF ]
                      leader :    θL Λ1 = EL [XTF + XTL ] − EL [P1 ] + XTL                 .
                                                                                  ∂θL

    Consider the first condition. The follower’s optimal order must equate the cost of having
market power—the left-hand side, which encodes that as the price responds with sensitivity
Λ2 , all inframarginal units become more expensive—with the per-unit trading gain from
his perspective—the right-hand side, capturing the net gain on each unit purchased due to
the follower’s superior information. 17 Importantly, it is easy to conclude from here that, in
equilibrium, the follower’s trade must be unpredictable from the market maker’s viewpoint:
his order is expected to be zero, or E[θF |F1 ] = 0, as is usual in Kyle-type models. 18
    Inspection of the leader’s FOC reveals that any departure from this canonical way of
trading by the leader must be driven by the last term there, or

                                                     ∂EL [XTF ]
                                               XTL              ,                                          (12)
                                                       ∂θL

which is a non-trivial continuation value capturing that the leader’s incentives to trade are
also influenced by the possibility of inducing the follower to build a larger terminal block—
and hence, to add more effort. In what follows, we refer to (12) as the value of manipulation
because it encodes the value associated with influencing a real action—effort provision—by
strategically affecting beliefs, which shape the follower’s gains from trading.
    Towards understanding this latter channel, insert XTF = θF + X0F and P2 = P1 + Λ2 [θF −
E[θF |F1 ] + σZ2 ] in the follower’s FOC. Solving for θF in this condition, while using that the
follower’s trades are unpredictable in equilibrium, we obtain

                                                  Y1F + X0F − P1
                                          θF =                   ,                                         (13)
                                                      2Λ2 − 1

where Y1F is the follower’s expectation of the leader’s terminal position from Lemma 1. The
   17
      Note that here and in the leader’s condition, the change in firm value due to a marginally larger terminal
block is absent due to effort choices being at an optimum.
   18
      Indeed, this follows from the market maker having correct beliefs in equilibrium and the law of iterated
expectations, namely that E[EF [XTL + XTF − P2 ]|F1 ] = E[XTL + XTF − E[XTL + XTF |F2 ]|F1 ] = 0.


                                                       16
trade-off that the leader faces is clear. On the one hand, a larger trade, by creating a greater
order flow, indicates that more effort by the leader is coming, which increases the follower’s
motive to trade through Y1F . But the market maker understands this logic and increases the
price P1 quoted to the follower, which weakens his incentive to trade. On top of this, the
leader considers her own trading gains and price-impact costs present in her FOC.
    Altogether, imposing that the optimal strategies from the FOCs coincide with the linear
strategies (4) leads to fixed-point equations for the coefficients (αL , δL , αF , βF , δF ). The
system is complex not only because of the asymmetry in the coefficients (due to the timing
of moves), but also because the system must be augmented to check non-trivial second-order
conditions (SOCs) stemming from the endogeneity of the fundamentals:

                                    follower :     0 > 1 − 2Λ2 ,                                          (14)
                                       leader :    0 > 1 − 2Λ1 (1 − βF ).                                 (15)

The right-hand side of (14) appears in the denominator of (13): in equilibrium then, increas-
ing Y1F (or P1 ) moves the follower’s trades in the direction discussed. Crucially, the leader’s
SOC is non-trivial because of the term 1 − βF , which reflects how the leader’s effective cost
of trading is affected by the feedback at play: if large trades cause the follower to acquire a
bigger block, these trades are less costly for the leader than in a setting with exogenous fun-
damentals where price impact is the only disciplining force. This can happen when βF —the
weight that the follower attaches to P1 in his strategy—is below but close to 1. 19
    Towards our main result, let                  s
                                                     σ2
                                          αK :=
                                                     φ
denote the well-known slope coefficient in the traditional Kyle insider trading strategy.

Theorem 1. There is ρ ∈ (−φ, 0) such that for all ρ ∈ (ρ, φ] a PBS equilibrium exists.

  (i) If ρ > 0, the leader sells on average: −δL > αK > αL > 0, so E[θL |F0 ] < 0;

 (ii) If ρ < 0, the leader buys on average: αL > αK > −δL > 0, so E[θL |F0 ] > 0.

By contrast, E[θF |F1 ] = 0 for all ρ. Further, the equilibrium coefficients in the follower’s
                        p
strategy satisfy: αF = σ 2 /γ1F ; δF < 0; and βF < 1, with sign(βF ) = −sign(ρ). Finally, it
is only when ρ = 0 that αL = −δL = αK : in this case, θi = αK (X0i − µ), i = L, F . 20
  19
       The scalar 1 in (14)–(15) reflects a convexity
                                                  q linked   to trades affecting firm value via effort choices.
  20                                          F       σ2
       More generally, one can show that θ =         γF
                                                         (θ − M1F ), where (M1F , γ1F ) as in Lemma 1. We can
                                                           F
                                                     1
prove uniqueness of PBS equilibria analytically for ρ ∈ (ρ0 , φ], where ρ0 ∈ (ρ, 0). Numerically, uniqueness
within the PBS class seems to hold for ρ ∈ (ρ, ρ0 ]. The threshold ρ depends on parameters.


                                                         17
    From the result, predictability is a generic property of the leader’s trading: E[θL |F0 ] 6=
0 if and only if ρ 6= 0. This property admits two interpretations. From a governance perspec-
tive, when activists know more about each other than the public knows, a leader’s accumu-
lation of shares departs meaningfully from that arising when she acts in isolation, in which
case the value of manipulation would be absent—as we will show, this can have non-trivial
implications on firm values and prices (Section 4.2). From a theoretical perspective, the
result is proof that the strategic motive of a trading activist is different from that of insider
traders who do not directly influence firms. We emphasize this average measure because it is
the cleanest outcome variable through which our stylized model speaks to both governance
and strategic considerations. In particular, while there is selling pressure on average when
ρ > 0, leaders with large blocks do acquire more shares as long as αL X0L + δL µ > 0.
    It may seem intuitive that the leader’s block-building incentives can be weakened, as less-
aggressive trades can be used to lower the price P1 that the follower is quoted, a force that
would increase his trading gains. The issue is that, by placing a smaller or negative order,
the follower also becomes more pessimistic about the leader’s contribution to the firm’s value
(i.e., Y1F can fall). To make the matter more stark, consider what happens when ρ < 0. In
this case, the leader buys on average, driving P1 up, yet the follower buys more shares as P1
increases: from the theorem, βF > 0 in the follower’s strategy when ρ < 0.
    At the center of our finding is the differential sensitivity of the follower’s and market
maker’s beliefs resulting from the interdependence at play: because the informational content
of order flows varies across the follower and market maker, market signals can be used
to communicate with, and influence, others. To see how this mechanism operates, use
the expression for the follower’s order (13) and that Ψ1 = θL + σZ1 to write the value of
manipulation (12) as

                                                XTL
                                                      F
                               ∂EL [XTF ]
                                                                
                                                      ∂Y1   ∂P1
                           XTL      L
                                          =               −       ,                         (16)
                                 ∂θ           2Λ2 − 1 ∂Ψ1   ∂Ψ1

where the bracket encodes how the follower’s informational advantage, embedded in her
perceived trading gains, is affected by the first-period order flow. To the follower then, an
unexpectedly large Ψ1 is a signal that only the leader will exert more effort, because the
follower privately knows what his own willingness to intervene is. But since the market
maker is uncertain about both the leader’s and follower’s contributions, correlation matters.
If ρ > 0, the market maker infers that the follower will add more value too, so P1 reacts more
strongly to Ψ1 than Y1F (to be established shortly). As (16) becomes negative—reflecting that
block acquisition by the follower is discouraged after a positive surprise in Ψ1 —the leader’s
incentives to acquire stock fall. Conversely, if ρ < 0, P1 reacts less strongly to Ψ1 than Y1F :


                                                18
for the market maker, signals that indicate larger contributions by the leader are offset by
a perception of smaller contributions by the follower. With relatively less sensitive prices,
the value of manipulation is now positive: the leader buys more aggressively to increase the
follower’s trading gains through inducing more mispricing that can be exploited.
    Only when ρ = 0 do the discussed sensitivities coincide: absent any interdependence,
both the follower and market maker only update about the leader’s effort from Ψ1 , and
with the same intensity given the common prior. In this knife-edge case, the usual trading
strategy in “gap” form αK (X0i − µ), i ∈ {L, F }, emerges, as the final part of the theorem
shows. The left panel in Figure 1 illustrates typical coefficients in the leader’s strategy; in
turn, the right panel plots the sensitivities ∂Y1F /∂Ψ1 and ∂P1 /∂Ψ1 = Λ1 .

                                                                               5

                         0.4
                                                                               4



                         0.2
                                                                               3


                                                                               2

            - 0.5                           0.5         1.0
                                                                                1


                        - 0.2
                                                                    -0.5                0.5   1.0


                                                                        p
Figure 1: Right panel: leader’s strategy coefficients, along with αK := σ 2 /φ. Left panel: sensi-
tivities of P1 and Y1F with respect to Ψ1 . Parameters values: φ = 1, σ = .2.


    We conclude with two observations related to this figure. First, in the left panel, the
departures from the levels ±αK capture the extent of manipulation by the leader: if ρ > 0,
the leader underweighs the importance of her block in her strategy in favor of the prior mean
µ to generate downward pressure on prices. In practice, this means that leaders with larger
blocks distort their purchases more in absolute terms, because the gains from influencing the
follower are applied to more shares. Further, as |ρ| grows, the deviation is more acute because
the first-period order flow becomes statistically more informative (for better or worse) about
the follower’s contribution. 21 The observed asymmetry in the departures for positive and
negative ρ is due the differential effect of the feedback channel on the convexity of the leader’s
problem—it relates to the threshold ρ < 0 for existence and is discussed in Section 6.
    Second, related to the right panel, a direct corollary of the theorem is that

                                           ∂Y1F
                                                       
                                                  ∂P1
                                sign            −           = sign(βF ) = −sign(ρ),
                                           ∂Ψ1    ∂Ψ1
  21
       The observed decreasing patterns are established in Proposition A.6 in the Appendix.


                                                            19
and so the sensitivities of P1 and Y1F to Ψ1 rank as we anticipated. 22 This also explains why
Y1F does not need to be carried independently in the follower’s strategy: the contributions
of Y1F and P1 are subsumed in βF P1 , because Y1F is linear in Ψ1 , and hence affine in P1 .


3.2       Robustness
Let us briefly discuss model variations that deliver qualitatively identical results.

Other forms of private information As argued, the fact that private information is
about initial blocks is not essential when it comes to the type of strategic behavior uncovered.

Proposition 1. Suppose that the activists’ initial blocks are public, and consider the follow-
ing variations of our model (in each case, the rest of the assumptions remain unchanged):

 (a) Exogenous components of firm value: the firm’s (share) value is V L + V F + W L + W F ,
     where V i ∼ N (µ, φ) is exogenous and is activist i’s private information, i ∈ {L, F }.
                                                                    i 2
 (b) Activist productivity: Activist i’s cost of effort is (W2 ) − ζi W i , where ζ i ∼ N (µ, φ) is
     exogenous and is activist i’s private information, i ∈ {L, F }.

Let ρ := Cov(ξ L , ξ F ), ξ ∈ {V, ζ}. Then as long as ρ is positive or not too negative, if X0L > 0
there is an equilibrium with E[θF |F1 ] ≡ 0 and sign(E[θL |F0 ]) = −sign(ρ) in both (a) and (b).

    Both variations capture “activist expertise”: in (a), the activists can be seen as each
having superior information about a different division of the target; in (b), ζ captures an
activist’s ability to unlock firm value at lower private costs. 23 In either case, the logic
behind the relationship between the underlying correlation and the leader’s average trade is
preserved: her terminal position continues to be her private information and, as it increases
in X0L > 0, leaders with larger initial blocks benefit more from the follower’s effort. 24

The leader trades again Because the leader continues to have relevant private informa-
tion in the second period, she may benefit from trading once again along with the follower.
Figure 2 contrasts the leader’s average trade in the first period of such a model with that
in our baseline model as a function of ρ, showing that a qualitatively identical distortion
  22
       The last equality comes from Theorem 1. As for the first, use (12) under θF = αF X0F + βF P1 + δF µ
               ∂E [X F ]
to obtain XTL ∂θ  L
                    L
                      T
                        = XTL βF Λ1 and equate with (16). The result then follows from the SOCs holding and
that βF < 1 (also from Theorem 1, which, through the leader’s SOC, implies that Λ1 > 0).
   23
      Brick et al. (2024) studies how hedge funds’ industry experience affect activism.
   24
      In these variations, leaders with larger (now public) initial blocks can buy less shares than smaller
blockholder counterparts: see (A.30) which features a negative weight on X0L if ρ > 0—while this force was
present in a PBS equilibrium when blocks were private, it was counteracted by a block being used as a source
of informational advantage. See also (A.31) for the leader’s terminal position being increasing in X0L .


                                                    20
from a neutral trade arises too. The magnitude of the departure is smaller though, due to
a competition effect: as the follower scales back in response to the presence of the leader at
t = 2, this reduces the value of manipulation for the leader activist in the first period. (For
more details on this extension, see Internet Appendix Section I.D.)
   Section 5 expands on variations of this competition theme (for instance, by varying the
number of followers). For now, the bottom line is that our choice of model is purely driven
by tractability reasons, bringing us to the next point.
                                          0.3


                                          0.2


                                          0.1


                           -0.4   -0.2          0.2        0.4   0.6   0.8   1.0

                                         -0.1

                                         -0.2

                                         -0.3


       Figure 2: Leader’s expected period-one trade. Parameter values: µ = φ = 1, σ = .8.


Repeated trades with both activists With activists that trade in sequence, and only
once each, the presence of correlation is key to generating the intertemporal effect studied.
But this is not needed with multiple rounds of trading featuring both activists in all rounds.

Proposition 2. Suppose that both activists trade in each of the two rounds prior to the effort
stage, and that initial blocks are as in the baseline model with ρ ≥ 0. If σ > 0 is sufficiently
small, there is a linear equilibrium in which both activists (strictly) sell on average at t = 1.

    Here, again, each activist can learn about their counterparty’s contribution to the firm
while the market maker cannot disentangle the individual contributions—but our mechanism
can emerge even if there is no correlation. Indeed, while the market maker relies on the total
order flow to learn about the firm, the activists can construct a residual signal net of their
own trading to learn about their counterparty, because they know how their own trades
add to the order flow. As the former signal has more fundamental uncertainty—because it
carries two pieces of unknown information—prices are relatively more sensitive even when
ρ = 0. This model is considerably more complex, so we prove existence around σ = 0, which
simplifies the equilibrium conditions. See Section I in the Internet Appendix for details.
    The key conclusion from this exercise is that, for our mechanism to emerge, the activists
just need to have a better ability than the market maker to filter information about each
other—the initial correlation in the baseline model being one possibility. We discuss related
evidence on this topic in Section 5.3, where we take a more institutionally oriented view.

                                                      21
Passive leader If the leader instead does not exert effort, thus behaving like a passive
fund, the same mechanism ensues. We prove the following in Internet Appendix Section II.

Proposition 3. Consider our baseline model but with only the follower exerting effort. Then,
the leader sells on average for all ρ 6= 0. Instead, if private information is about exogenous
components of the firm as in Proposition 1(a) and ρ is positive or not too negative, then
there is a linear equilibrium featuring sign(E[θL |F0 ]) = −sign(ρ).

    If the leader does not intervene, there is nothing to learn about her input to the firm;
but as long as blocks are correlated, Ψ1 informs the market maker about the follower’s
contribution. Thus, Y1F ceases to be payoff relevant for the follower, while P1 responds to
Ψ1 so long as ρ 6= 0, causing the leader to sell on average. In turn, buy orders reemerge if
private information is about exogenous fundamentals and negatively correlated: the follower
can learn about the firm’s value from the first-period order flow, so Y1F —his forecast of V L
known by the leader—now responds to Ψ1 , and the usual logic applies. 25

Friendliness towards the firm Some blockholders are friendly to firms, resisting the
change brought about by activists. To capture such a conflict, we add κXTL W F , κ ∈ (0, 1),
to the follower’s quadratic effort costs: effort W F by the follower—for example, in support-
ing the leader’s campaign—entails losses that grow with the leader’s terminal block—for
example, losing more private benefits as the leader’s degree of control grows. For simplicity,
we keep the leader’s payoffs unchanged: she is “benevolent” in that she is purely motivated
to unlock value that benefits all shareholders, which comes at the expense of the follower.
     The follower’s effort now becomes XTF −κY1F , with the second term encoding negative ac-
tivism: engaging in actions that lower firm value, or that oppose the leader’s value-enhancing
change, in proportion to his expectation of the leader’s contribution. In this situation, trad-
ing aggressively is costly to the leader not only because of price impact, but also because
the firm’s true value XTL + XTF − κY1F moves against the leader due to the follower’s coun-
teraction. This channel is non-trivial because it may seem that a drop in fundamentals due
to a marginal increase in Ψ1 boosting Y1F is perfectly offset by an identical change in the
price P1 = E[XTL + XTF − κY1F |F1 ]. However, there is an important difference: price changes
apply to newly acquired shares only, while negative activism applies to the entire block. To
protect the value of her initial block from the follower’s negative activism then, the leader
reduces her block acquisition, thereby signaling to the follower that only moderate change is
coming. Importantly, this phenomenon is most transparent when ρ = 0, a situation where
it is not possible to affect the follower’s behavior through influencing his trading gains.
  25
     If the leader in our baseline specification is passive, it is possible to show that a linear equilibrium
exhibiting selling pressure exists for all negative values of ρ. See the Internet Appendix for details.


                                                     22
Proposition 4. When facing a follower that is friendly to the firm as above, the leader
always sells on average in the first period when ρ = 0.

   See Section III in the Internet Appendix for more on this example. In particular, Figure
1 there shows how this new effect amplifies the mechanism already present in the baseline
model: that is, the leader’s benefit of reducing her purchases when correlation is positive.


4      Predictions
The predictability of trades determines the extent to which initial blocks are expected to
change, and hence it speaks to the question of whether ex ante trading promotes or suppresses
activist interventions via costly “voice.” Because stock prices reflect the market’s expectation
of firms’ true values, our model can link block interdependence, via the implied predictability
of trades, with average prices during activism events. We first present theoretical results
pertaining to market outcomes in our model, and then connect these findings with the
existing empirical literature.


4.1      Market Outcomes
Returning to our baseline model, we will examine market outcomes from an ex ante perspec-
tive, that is, averaging across all possible blocks for the leader and follower. 26 To simplify
notation, we write E[·] for E[·|F0 ] (which averages using the prior distribution of blocks), and
note that E[XTF ] = E[X0F ] = µ because the follower’s trades are neutral on average—thus,
only the leader ends up non-trivially affecting the firm’s value through her trading. It is easy
to see then that the firm’s ex ante value and price satisfies E[W L + W F ] = E[P1 ] = E[P2 ] =
(2 + αL + δL )µ. Recall that µ > 0.

Theorem 2. In any PBS equilibrium:

    (i) Governance and interdependence: E[W L + W F ] ≤ 2µ if and only if ρ ≥ 0 (with strict
        inequality if ρ 6= 0). Further, ex ante firm value monotonically decreases with ρ.

 (ii) Efficacy of multiplayer attacks: E[W L + W F ] > µ for all ρ such that a PBS equilibrium
      exists (i.e., ρ > ρ, where ρ is as in Theorem 1).
    26
       While selection effects can be at play in activism events, this measure is not an unreasonable approx-
imation. On the one hand, while small blockholders may be perceived as less relevant, they are gaining
prominence: Brav et al. (2021b) documents an example of a hedge fund owning 0.02 percent of outstanding
stock and yet obtaining important concessions. On the other hand, the largest blockholder in a firm typically
is a passive fund; further, the largest blockholders are less likely to trade (e.g., Lewellen and Lewellen, 2022).


                                                       23
(iii) Effect of market liquidity: Fix ρ > 0:
                                             p
   (iii.1) Both lim E[θL ] and lim (αL − σ 2 /φ) exist and take a negative value.
                σ→+∞              σ→+∞
                                       p
   (iii.2) lim E[θL ] = 0 and lim (αL − σ 2 /φ) = 0.
           σ→0                σ→0

    The first part of the theorem illustrates how the leader’s behavior operates to amplify
or mitigate the static free-riding incentives that are inherent in multiplayer engagements.
Concretely, absent any trading, ex ante firm value amounts to E[X0L + X0F ] = 2µ due to
each activist exerting effort according to their own block. When correlation is positive and
the leader sells on average, firm value falls below this benchmark—the leader effectively
offloads activism costs on the follower, and the extent of free riding grows. Conversely, when
correlation is negative, the leader is inevitably forced to bear more of the activism costs and
develop more skin in the game to entice the follower to build his block—remarkably, the
manipulation at play now mitigates the extent of free riding. The last part of (i) simply says
that we can analytically show that the inefficiencies grow as ρ increases.
    Turning to (ii), note that when only one activist is present—and hence the manipulation
motive is trivially absent—trades are unpredictable and ex ante firm value is µ. The theo-
rem then asserts that multiplayer engagements always deliver more value than single-player
attacks. By “always,” we mean irrespective of the value of ρ, and hence independent of
whether the free-riding motive is exacerbated. This is a reflection of the leader not reversing
her initial position on average (i.e., sign(E[X0L ]) = sign(E[XTL ])), which would be needed for
the firm’s value to fall below the single-player case. In other words, despite the manipulation,
the leader is effectively engaged in positive activism in this type of equilibrium.
    Finally, part (iii) explores the effect of order flow volatility when ρ > 0; we use limiting
values of σ to obtain analytical comparisons. As the market becomes more liquid when σ
grows, the price P1 is less responsive to the order flow, suggesting that less manipulation is
optimal. But fundamentals are endogenous: as the leader trades more aggressively due to her
limited ability to move prices, she builds a larger terminal block. Through this channel—the
leader’s marginal incentive to manipulate, captured by XTL , being endogenous—the value of
manipulation grows, despite the lower price impact of trades. This is what part (iii.1) states:
                                                                                  p
as σ grows large, there is a non-trivial degree of manipulation in that |αL − σ 2 /φ| 6= 0 in
the limit, a situation where the leader sells a finite amount. Conversely, when σ & 0 and
the market is infinitely illiquid, the leader naturally ceases to trade at all (part iii.2).
    Figure 3 extends (iii) for intermediate values of σ, and for a negative ρ: the leader’s
expected trade (also a measure of manipulation), (αL + δL )µ, increases in magnitude mono-
tonically as σ grows.


                                               24
                                0.2

                                0.1

                                       0.5   1.0   1.5        2.0   2.5   3.0   3.5
                               -0.1
                               -0.2
                              -0.3
                              -0.4
                              -0.5




Figure 3: The leader’s expected trade as a function of σ for two levels of correlation: ρ = 1 (solid)
and ρ = −.2 (dashed). When ρ > 0, the limit is finite as σ → ∞. Parameter values: φ = µ = 1.


4.2       Connection with the Empirical Evidence
The empirical literature on activism focuses on examining trading volume and prices around
disclosure events to assess the real effects of this practice. The challenge with multiplayer
attacks, however, is that not all of the activists involved have to disclose their positions.
Thus, the analyses on this topic either study events featuring multiple funds with publicly
known positions or resort to indirect methods to infer properties of multi-activist interactions.
    In the first category, most relevant to us is the work by Becht et al. (2017) who examine
activism events featuring disclosing hedge funds in attacks in Asia, Europe and the United
States. Of over 1,700 events in their sample, a quarter involve multiple activists targeting
the same firm. A key finding is that these events perform “strikingly better” (p. 2933) than
their single-player counterparts: their accumulated total stake as a whole is larger, and so
are the abnormal returns observed. These findings are consistent with our robust finding in
Theorem 2 (ii) that multiplayer engagements add more value for all ρ as in Theorem 1.
    In terms of indirect methods, the closest evidence in favor of our mechanism is provided by
Flugum et al. (2023), who identify institutional investors that access EDGAR files of specific
activists’ targets in the days prior to 13D filings. 27 There are three key findings about trading
patterns in the presence of such “informed followers.” First, disclosing activists tend to
acquire more shares before these followers access files, with over 95% of an activist’s purchases
being free from these followers’ competitive threat—i.e., trades happen in sequence. Second,
these followers are more likely to increase their holdings before filing occurs, consistent with
informational advantages driving block formation. Third, when these followers are present,
activists are less likely to increase their stakes beyond those reported in the initial filing.
This finding, while pertaining to block acquisition after disclosure, resembles the substitution
  27
       This is done through identifying institution-owned IP addresses that download such information.


                                                         25
effect arising when ρ ≥ 0 in our model: as followers develop skin in the game, an activist’s
need to continue growing her block—say, to ensure winning a campaign—is weakened.
    Let us conclude this section by discussing one possible avenue that the empirical literature
can pursue building on our work. The starting point is that our model delivers price patterns
analogous to abnormal buy-and-hold returns observed around disclosure events. Indeed,
observe that if activism is not at play—i.e., fundamentals are exogenous from the activists’
perspective—trades should be neutral on average because they must respond to informational
advantages only. As blocks should not change on average in such “normal” times, the average
price would be 2µ. But our findings point to average prices departing from this benchmark
when activism is possible: by Theorem 2 (i), prices should be abnormally low when ρ > 0,
and vice versa; or, in relative terms, abnormal returns should fall as ρ grows.
    The empirical challenge is then to identify characteristics of target firms with enough
underlying variation in block interdependence to test the above hypothesis. Market cap-
italization can be one such variable, which can be exploited by leveraging the work on
blockholder interdependence by Hadlock and Schwartz-Ziv (2019). Concretely, while these
authors document an overall negative interdependence among blockholders of a variety of
classes, this conclusion reverses for a subset of “strategic investors” including hedge funds and
private equity: the likelihood of observing a block belonging to this investor type increases
when a block from the same category is present at a firm. Further, the authors show that
this positive interdependence is stronger as the associated blocks become smaller 28 —at the
same time, however, Lewellen and Lewellen (2022) document that in the U.S., the average
(institutionally owned) block size falls with capitalization, at least from mid- to large-cap
firms in the U.S. 29 A second characteristic could be to account for the presence or absence of
short positions, as a mix of blockholders with long and short positions in our model is more
likely when correlation is negative. Furthermore, consistent with the previous discussion,
highly shorted stocks tend to come from small-cap firms (e.g., Asquith et al., 2005), and also
exhibit more disagreement about their prospects (e.g., Diether et al., 2002).
    Put together then, these facts can be taken as suggestive of positive (negative) interde-
pendence increasing (weakening) as market capitalization grows, or as short positions are
less frequently observed, which in our model would mean gradually lower abnormal returns.
This is exactly what Brav et al. (2021b) find for activist hedge funds between 1994 and 2018
in the U.S.: around disclosure and trigger dates, there is substantially more abnormality for
  28
     See Table C.1 in their Appendix, for blocks above 5% and 10%.
  29
     From Table 3 in their paper, which encompasses institutional investors beyond hedge funds, (i) the
largest, (ii) top 2 and 3 and (iii) the 4-10 blockholders in mid-cap firms have larger fractional holdings on
average than their counterparts in large-cap firms. Brav et al. (2008) argues that blocks are smaller in
large-cap firms due to the funds needed to acquire a sizable stake in this segment growing considerably.



                                                     26
small-cap firms, followed by mid-cap, and lastly for the largest firms (even featuring negative
abnormality in this latter case). Our prediction would also be in line with Li et al. (2022),
who show that when target firms feature investors with large short positions, the abnormal
returns are higher than those observed when these investors are absent.
    That being said, it is important to acknowledge that these studies do not perfectly fit our
setup: for example, hedge funds and private equity are commingled in Hadlock and Schwartz-
Ziv (2019), and the firms analyzed need not be targets of activist campaigns; meanwhile, in
Li et al. (2022) the investors holding negative positions may not actively try to take actions
that undermine value (as would occur in our model). However, further investigating this line
of inquiry for “trading blockholders”—hedge funds in particular, whose relevance will be
discussed in Section 5.3—is an important endeavor because it would confirm a fundamental
dichotomy at play: their ability to overcome collective-action problems may be substantial
in smaller firms, but less so in larger ones, purely for strategic reasons.
    This conclusion may have meaningful consequences if we expect groups of activists to
agglomerate more frequently precisely around large firms—Artiga González and Calluzzo
(2019) confirm this type of clustering for hedge funds that are in geographic proximity, and
argue that it is consistent with cost-sharing motives. Moreover, as we have already argued,
activists’ interest in these types of firms is growing; in 2024, for instance, mega-cap firms
constituted 30% of major activists’ targets. 30


5        First-Mover Advantages and Wolf Packs
5.1      Coordination in the timing of trades
To assess the benefit of acting as a leader, we compare trading strategies and payoffs in our
model with those in a one-shot trading game in which both activists trade simultaneously.

Proposition 5. Inq a symmetric PBS equilibrium of the one-shot game, the activists trade
                     2
according to θ = σ2φ (X0i − µ), i = L, F . There is a region around ρ = 0 in which, compared
              i

to this benchmark, both traders get a higher ex ante payoff if they move sequentially. 31

    Consider the last part of the result first, which is about a mutually advantageous coor-
dination of trades: both the leader and the follower can be better off by building blocks
in sequence. In Figure 4, this happens over a wide range of interdependence. To the right
    30
     See Barclays 2024 Review of Shareholder Activism.
    31
     Here, there is a negative threshold level of correlation above which a symmetric PBS equilibrium exists
and is unique. Indeed, price impact becomes very small when ρ  0 due to the two activists’ opposing
trades, and it cannot offset the convexity from endogenous fundamentals in the players’ SOCs.


                                                    27
of that region, only being a leader pays off: the benefit of acting as such increases with ρ
because it is easier to influence the market maker’s beliefs and hence more activism costs are
offloaded on the follower; instead, the follower does not have this ability and has the disad-
vantage of encountering a more informed market maker. To the left, being a leader ceases
to be profitable: when trading simultaneously, the other activist’s likely opposite position
means access to liquidity at low prices. Being a follower would pay off, because the leader
bearing more activism costs offsets the loss from the market maker being better informed.
                                           3.5




                                           3.0




                                           2.5




                                           2.0




                                           1.5




                                           1.0


                                - 0.5       0.0        0.5         1.0



Figure 4: Leader’s and follower’s payoffs under sequential vs. simultaneous moves. Between the
dashed vertical lines, both players prefer sequential moves. Parameters: µ = φ = 1, σ = .2.

     The previous coordination result, stating a preference for sequential trading, is important
because there is a channel through which the stronger competition that arises with simulta-
neous moves could a priori benefit the activists: namely, that the firm’s value is endogenous.
To illustrate, consider the first part of the proposition stating that the traders scale back
when another activist with market power is present (which we anticipated in Section 3.2):
            p                                                           p
the slope σ 2 /2φ is smaller than in the single-player version αK := σ 2 /φ. However, with
enough symmetry, their combinedq order is stillqlarger than the single-player benchmark: if
                                   2                 2
X0 = X0 > µ for instance, 2 σ2φ (X0 − µ) > σφ (X0 − µ), implying that the competition
   L      F

effect at play delivers a more pronounced impact on the firm’s ex post value. The problem
is that such an outcome need not be stable: to maximize profits, an activist may favor a
lower firm value in exchange for lower acquisition and activism costs. This demonstrates the
importance of examining how blockholders’ private benefits and costs from interventions can
affect governance, as Edmans and Holderness (2017) emphasize.


5.2    Other Factors Favoring Leader-Type Behavior
Block size Do larger blockholders benefit from acting as leaders? To explore this question,
Figure 5 plots the expected payoff of a first (top curve) and second (lower curve) mover
conditional on a block X0i (horizontal axis), net of the payoff of moving simultaneously with

                                                  28
the counterparty; correlation is positive and blocks weakly above average (µ = 1). As blocks
grow past a threshold close to the mean, the net benefit of acting as a monopolist in any
period is increasing in block size—and being a leader is always preferred to being a follower.

                            1.5




                            1.0




                            0.5




                                      1.5      2.0      2.5      3.0




Figure 5: Expected payoff of i = L, F conditional on X0i net of simultaneous-move counterpart.
Parameter values: µ = φ = 1, and (ρ, σ) = (0.5, 1).

    The key to this finding is how the competition effects just discussed play out conditional
on block size. Specifically, when correlation is positive, owning a larger block is a signal of
the other activist having a large block too (recall Y0i , i ∈ {L, F }, from Lemma (1)). Thus,
it is a signal of high acquisition costs when trading simultaneously, so there are increasing
gains from trading in isolation as blocks grow. But this need not be the case for very small
blockholders, such as those around µ in the figure. Indeed, since these activists do not change
their positions much, nor expect much competition either, acquisition costs are less relevant:
the positive effect that competition has on firm value can dominate slightly for them.

Activist productivity Do more productive activists benefit from acting as leaders? Con-
sider now an extreme asymmetric version of our baseline model: there is a productive activist
with effort costs 2ζ1 W 2 , where ζ > 0 is commonly known scalar, and a second activist who
cannot affect the firm’s value (e.g., ζ & 0 for this player). As the latter activist acts like the
passive fund from Section 3.2, we can use this example to uncover the extent to which the
benefits associated with being able to manipulate beliefs are linked to the ability to affect
fundamentals. To maximize the scope for the former channel, we assume perfect correlation.

Proposition 6. Suppose that ρ = φ. For sufficiently small σ > 0, if the productive activist
leads and the unproductive activist follows, their respective ex ante payoffs are higher than in
the opposite configuration. But if instead both blockholders are equally productive according
to ζ > 0, leading is always better than following for σ > 0 small.

   The productive activist prefers to lead rather than to follow: despite not being able
to manipulate in either case (since the other activist is unproductive), her informational

                                               29
advantage is larger when leading. Interestingly, the unproductive blockholder becomes worse
off when he leads: being able to manipulate traps him in an inferior outcome—at least when
σ is small (and hence so are their trades), which makes our analytical results simpler.
    This means that being able to directly intervene in the firm can be key for monetizing
market signals as a tool to influence others. Indeed, by the final part of the proposition,
the first-mover advantage reappears when the productivity of the originally passive activist
is restored. The difference lies in the value of holdings for this player when he leads, which
takes value ζ(XTL + XTF )XTL if productive, but only ζXFL XTL if unproductive: in the first case,
being able to add value in line with the block limits the extent of the manipulation—because
the forgone trading gains are larger—in a way that is not detrimental to overall profits.

Multiple followers Let us quickly explore the effect of varying the number of followers.
Concretely, our original follower is split among N individuals: each has an identical initial
block X0F ∼ N (µ/N, φ/N 2 ), with Cov(X0L , X0F ) = ρ/N . As this specification keeps fixed the
total amount of both (i) follower-associated uncertainty and (ii) follower effort absent any
trading, any change in outcomes must come from a change in the strategic behavior by the
followers. The firm’s value continues to be the sum of all of the activists’ terminal positions.
    Motivated by the notion of similarity attributed to “wolf pack activism”—which we
discuss shortly—we set ρ > 0. We use M1F := E[X0F |F1 ] and γ1F := E[(X0F − M1F )2 |F1 ] for
the market maker’s posterior about each individual follower’s position given Ψ1 .

Proposition 7. Fix ρ ∈ (0, φ]. Inqthe unique PBS equilibrium, each follower trades via
                                         σ2
θF = αF (X0F − M1F ), where αF =        N γ1F
                                              . Also, αF is increasing in N ; both αL and the
                                                                              √
firm’s ex ante value decrease in N ; and the leader’s ex ante payoff grows ∼ N for N large.
                                                             √
If ρ = φ, the leader’s gain from moving first also grows ∼ N for N large.

    That αF increases with N reflects stronger competitive effects: as each follower possesses
a smaller fraction of the total existing private information—captured in γ1F ∝ 1/N 2 —the
individual contribution to price impact falls, and trading more aggressively is optimal. 32
The value of manipulation then grows, causing both αL and the firm’s ex ante value to fall
                                                                      √
with N . In turn, the leader’s ex ante payoff grows at a rate of N for N large, due to
the interaction term E[XTL N XTF ]: the followers’ more aggressive trading leads to terminal
positions that covary more strongly with the leader’s. Two additional points are in order.
First, if correlation is perfect we can show analytically that the leader’s expected payoff net
of the simultaneous-move benchmark has the same growth rate (last part of the proposition).
Second, related to the covariance effect, Figure 6 shows that N and ρ are complements: as
  32
       See Edmans and Manso (2011) and Kyle (1989) for results relying on an identical logic.


                                                     30
ρ grows, the leader benefits more from having additional followers because their increased
trading intensity is more in line with the leader’s. This benefit is likely less important when
initial blocks are negatively correlated due to the risk of efforts becoming misaligned.
                              12



                              10



                               8



                               6



                               4



                               2



                                    5    10    15    20   25    30




Figure 6: Leader’s expected payoff as a function of the number of followers, for various levels of
covariance. Other parameter values: φ = µ = σ = 1.




5.3    Wolf Packs
Our model builds on the following hypotheses:

 H1. Sensitivity to mispricing: The activists have a strong tendency towards monetizing
     prevailing trading gains, accumulating more shares as they become more underpriced;

 H2. Non-cooperative behavior: the activists do not employ formal agreements; rather, they
     maximize their own profits, understanding their counterparties’ incentives and how
     trading and the price mechanism can be used to their own advantage;

 H3. Similarity: the activists hold similar stakes in a statistical sense, in that blocks are
     not too negatively correlated—this favors the emergence of a leader. For intermediate
     levels of interdependence, coordinating the timing of trades is mutually beneficial;

 H4. Moderate stakes: since in practice there is a fixed number of shares, similarity (in the
     above sense) requires the activists to have small to moderate stakes. Otherwise, the
     possibility of sequential trades is undermined from the market maker’s perspective;

 H5. Multiple small followers. If there is enough similarity (i.e., ρ > 0), competition effects
     associated with the presence of multiple followers make it increasingly profitable for a
     hypothetical leader to emerge; this effect is reinforced if a leader has a larger block.

   Natural candidates to satisfy H1–H5 are hedge funds: in particular, the so-called wolf-
pack activism phenomenon, whereby multiple hedge funds of small to moderate size attack

                                                31
a firm in parallel—and in a seemingly non-cooperative manner—after a leader fund has
built a stake in the target. 33 Starting with H1, these funds—the quintessential example
of exploitation of mispricing opportunities—have followed a “value investor” approach to
activism by targeting firms underpriced relative to their potential, as measured by a large
book-to-market value ratio or a low Tobin’s q (Brav et al., 2008; Brav et al., 2021b). In
our model, the intensive margin of intervention increases—through a more aggressive block-
building—as the firm is more underpriced.
    Regarding H2, there are substantial costs associated with being perceived as a “group”
in the U.S. 34 The key issue is that an organized set of activists is treated as a single entity
with a block equal to the sum of its components. In this situation, there are potential legal
fees if the target firm alleges a violation of disclosure requirements (e.g., not disclosing when
the aggregate block surpasses 5%), which would be absent if the activists were individually
below the 5% threshold and acted non-cooperatively. On the other hand, complying with
disclosure rules means that a group necessarily invites undesired competition before achieving
a desired block size, thereby making block acquisition more costly. Additionally, the target
firm may bar the acquisition of more shares by the group members—the identities of which
are revealed upon disclosure—which may preclude the success of any engagement. 35
    With explicit agreements being risky (and indeed rarely seen, as Becht et al. (2017)
argue), activists can rely on their common understanding of the environment to act in
parallel—for the U.S., two factors have heightened the role of strategic considerations in re-
cent decades. First, ownership has become more concentrated. Second, changes in SEC reg-
ulation allow activists to communicate in a limited manner without this being characterized
as insider trading or trading as a group, or without triggering costly filing requirements. 36
The result is that there are fewer relevant players present, each with the power to influence
market outcomes, and with communication channels that favor the development of implicit,
more tacit, agreements: one possibility being to immediately attack after others do, with
the common knowledge of it triggering leader behavior in the way that we propose.
    Regarding similarity (H3), hedge funds’ niche business strategies strongly suggest block
  33
      See Becht et al. (2017), Brav et al. (2021a), Briggs (2007) and Coffee Jr and Palia (2016).
  34
      Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act. See for instance, Coffee Jr and Palia (2016), pp. 24–26
for an expanded discussion on this topic.
   35
      Similar restrictions apply in other jurisdictions. Under European law for instance, activists “acting in
concert” would be treated as one under the Transparency Directive (crossing a given shareholder ownership
threshold) and under the Acquisitions Directive (crossing a given shareholder ownership threshold in financial
firms after a proposed acquisition). See Ghetti (2014) for more discussion on the European case.
   36
      See pp. 1–2 in Lewellen and Lewellen (2022) for how Rule 14a–2(b)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act
permits shareholder communication regarding voting intentions (and reasons) at minimal costs as long as
proxies are not solicited or votes coordinated. The authors also document that to reach 25% of shares only
5 shareholders need to be contacted on average, while the 50% threshold requires around 27 institutions.



                                                     32
similarity in a statistical sense: this is in line with the findings on strategic investors by Had-
lock and Schwartz-Ziv (2019), who argue that positive interdependence is indeed indicative
of similar investment styles. Similar trading strategies also translates into similar research,
and hence into an overlap in potential targets that reinforces block interdependence. And as
we argued, hedge funds stakes are relatively small (H4), consistent with a goal to influence
firms but not exert control (e.g., Brav et al., 2021b): yet, this blockholder category is argued
to be the only one with a proven record of significantly affecting firms (Brav et al., 2008).
    While obtaining direct evidence on wolf packs is difficult due to their inherently secretive
nature, indirect evidence of a potential wolf pack orchestration by a leader is provided by
Wong (2020). Regarding competition effects (H5), he shows that on the trigger date of
campaigns featuring a single 13D filer, the trades by this hypothetical leader only explain
25% of the turnover observed, with the unexplained component averaging 240% of that in
normal times; further, he shows that investors who have a prior relationship with the leader
in past campaigns are more likely to buy shares. We note that leaders in such attacks must
necessarily have bigger blocks, simply because no other follower discloses.
    The SEC’s recent guidance on shareholder communication in the context of “tipping”
argues that when a blockholder who will have to make a disclosure communicates this non-
public information to other investors so that they purchase shares, and these purchases
happen, the actors involved could be classified as a group. 37 As such, the importance for
activists of market signals in the way that we propose is likely to grow, so long as activists
do have a superior ability to filter information about each other’s actions as we explained in
Section 3.2. In this line, Chabakauri et al. (2025) provide evidence that such an ability to
read market signals is indeed present among blockholders nowadays, in the case of corporate
insiders precisely detecting activists’ trades from order flows: during activism events, these
investors engage in abnormal purchases following activists’ trades before interventions go
public. As the authors argue, such blockholders are unlikely tippees, because they have
strong incentives to counter activists and defend their private benefits from control.


6         Other Equilibria and Refinement
Equilibria in which at least one of our activists attaches a negative weight to the initial block
can arise due to a coordination motive in value creation or destruction. Suppose that the
activists start “long” on the firm (i.e., X0L , X0F > 0) and that the leader expects the follower
to switch to a negative position. In the expectation of a negative effort by the follower,
the leader may then want to build a negative stake too, as a positive surplus would indeed
    37
         See pp. 130–139 in https://www.sec.gov/files/rules/final/2023/33-11253.pdf


                                                 33
emerge if both players exert negative effort—and similarly for the follower.
    Negative weights on initial blocks operationalize this logic, which we formalize through
two results in our Internet Appendix (Section V.A). First, we show that given ρ > 0, if
σ > 0 is sufficiently large, there is an equilibrium with both αL and αF taking negative
values: since ρ > 0 implies that the activists’ initial blocks likely have the same sign, this is
consistent with a motive to “meet on the same side.” In fact, a larger order flow volatility
σ facilitates such coordination because, by reducing price impact, it can induce the follower
to trade so aggressively that a position reversal happens. Indeed, we can show that the
                                                                     p
follower’s equilibrium coefficients must always satisfy αF = ± σ 2 /γ1F , so in the negative
                                  p
root case, the fact that αF < − σ 2 /φ implies that αF can be arbitrarily negative as σ grows;
in turn, this means that sufficiently many follower (initial block) types can be expected to
be reversed, and the coordination mechanism described can be self-fulfilling. 38
    Order flow volatility also relates to the lower bound ρ < 0 in Theorem 1, which helps
explain our second coordination result, now for negative ρ. The key is the ‘effective cost of
trading’ mentioned in the SOCs of Section 3.1: with positive correlation, more aggressive
trades are more costly than if fundamentals were exogenous because they lower the follower’s
effort; but with negative correlation such trades now add value, a force going against price
impact. 39 As the leader’s problem gains concavity when ρ > 0, a PBS equilibrium always
exists in that region. But this concavity weakens when ρ < 0, to the point that PBS
equilibria will cease to exist if ρ becomes sufficiently negative for fixed σ: the leader’s SOC
(15) cannot be satisfied by positive (αL , αF ) pairs, explaining ρ < 0 in our Theorem. Our
second coordination result is a proof of concept of this logic: if ρ = −φ, there is no equilibrium
in which αF and αL have the same sign; but one with sign(αL ) 6= sign(αF ) exists for all σ > 0.
    Lower order flow volatility can then play a dual role: by making manipulation easier,
it can make deviations from candidate coordination equilibria more profitable when ρ > 0;
and by increasing price impact, it can restore concavity in the leader’s problem when ρ < 0.
Thus, market illiquidity can refine the PBS equilibrium within the linear class. We prove
the following in Section V.B of the Internet Appendix.

Proposition 8. Suppose that ρ ∈ (−φ, φ). Then for sufficiently small but positive σ, a PBS
equilibrium exists and is the unique equilibrium within the linear class.

    Coordination equilibria are not unreasonable because they rely on negative fundamentals,
as our model and many others in the literature allow: after all, it is well-known that acquiring
a negative position can be profitable if it triggers a mechanism that lowers a firm’s value
  38
                                                                 p
     Our result also shows that in the leader’s strategy, αL < − σ 2 /φ.
  39
     To see this tension, refer to the numerator in the second ratio of (7) for period-1 price impact Λ1 .


                                                     34
(Goldstein and Guembel, 2008). When it comes to positive activism, however, it is the
feature of revising one’s initial choices so radically simply due to the expectation of what
others will do that seems stark: such an unwinding before activism occurs means going
against the information acquisition and research that in reality leads to the choice of an
initial block. Brav et al. (2021b) provide evidence precisely undermining this possibility:
hedge funds’ average duration of investment in a target is over 530 days, meaning that more
than a year and a half passes between disclosure of a position and a major divestiture.


7    Conclusions
We developed a theory of influence among blockholders at the center of which are cost-
management motives: trading in sequence to control acquisition costs, and then using market
signals to influence others to bear intervention costs. Through our analysis, we have provided
new insights regarding blockholders as informed traders vis-à-vis traditional insider traders;
explained how externalities that activists impose on others via trading can shape corporate
governance; and derived measures of price abnormality that permit new interpretations of
the empirical evidence on the topic. Altogether, the model that we have proposed, along
with its variations, constitutes a fresh approach to a highly understudied topic: how activist
investors may coordinate their actions in non-cooperative ways.
    We have already mentioned some lines of inquiry that future empirical work can explore
using our results. On the theoretical front, there are three clear directions. The first is de-
veloping a multiplayer, fully dynamic, repeated trade version of Proposition 2. For example,
one could start from the uncorrelated case to shed light on time-horizon effects: on the one
hand, the usual insider “splitting trades” logic would say that trades should be small away
from the end-game; but at the same time, that is when beliefs are most responsive, which
would favor the dampening of trades. The second is examining cost structures beyond the
quadratic case: while we argued that our findings are mainly driven by effort being increasing
in terminal positions—the linear case being the simplest—building on the innovative work
by Back et al. (2018) could provide a more informed view regarding the interplay between
market liquidity and the distortion of trades we have uncovered.
    Finally, while we have examined factors supporting both block accumulation and first-
mover advantages, developing a theory that endogeneizes the emergence of leaders and fol-
lowers, and their blocks, is key. While this is ultimately a matter of signals observed, con-
structing a general theory model seems challenging. In Section VI of our Internet Appendix,
we choose a middle ground by endogeneizing the activists’ initial positions while keeping
the identities exogenous, but possibly random. Our generalization adds an exogenous com-

                                              35
ponent of firm value (as in Proposition 1(a)) and a pre-round of trading based on private
signals, just like in traditional microstructure models. By varying the degree of correlation of
the latter signals and allowing for some interim information revelation about firm value, we
generate early trades—hence “initial” blocks—that exhibit both types of interdependence.
    This early round can be used by prospective leaders to ease the tension between exploiting
trading gains and manipulating others that arises when finalizing a block. Concretely, as
one activist becomes increasingly likely to be the leader, she trades less aggressively on her
private signal in the pre-round—as this results in a smaller initial block, it reduces the trading
gains to be given up when she becomes a leader and seeks to influence others, all else equal.
At the same time, a smaller footprint also means a smaller informational advantage, and
hence it encodes less price impact: the likely leader can then build a block more aggressively
in the first period of the leader-follower sub-game. Altogether, through this initial block
optimization, a greater anticipation of monopoly and manipulation power leads to block-
accumulation dynamics featuring purchases that are slow early on, but later accelerate to
better exploit trading gains without discouraging others from adding value.


A      Appendix: Proofs
A.1     Proof of Lemma 1
We make repeated use of the traditional projection theorem for Gaussian random variables.
Concretely, if (X, Y ) are jointly Gaussian, then X|Y is also Gaussian with E[X|Y ] = E[X] +
                                                    2 [X,Y ]
Cov[X,Y ]
  Var[Y ]
          (Y − E[Y ]) and Var[X|Y ] = Var[X] − Cov Var[Y ]
                                                             .
    Prior to trading, players use their own positions to update beliefs about the other player’s
position. Applying the projection theorem to the pair (X0i , X0−i ) yields Y0i and ν0i as stated
in the lemma. Using the conjectured linear strategies in (4), P0 satisfies

                  P0 = E[(1 + αL )X0L + δL µ + (1 + αF )X0F + βF P1 + δF µ].                (A.1)

Using that E[P1 ] = P0 to eliminate P1 yields an equation for P0 with solution (5), where the
denominator is nonzero due to the leader’s second order condition (15).
   In period 1, after observing Ψ1 the market maker updates beliefs about X0L and X0F
assuming Ψ1 = αL X0L + δL µ + σZ1 . By the projection theorem,
                                     !              !              !!
                               X0L            M1L         γ1L ρ1
                                         ∼N             ,               ,
                               X0F            M1F         ρ1 γ1F



                                               36
where

                                          αL φ
            M1L := E[X0L |F1 ] = µ +    2
                                                   {Ψ1 − µ(αL + δL )} ,                     (A.2)
                                      αL φ + σ 2
                                          αL ρ
            M1F := E[X0F |F1 ] = µ + 2              {Ψ1 − µ(αL + δL )} ,                    (A.3)
                                       αL φ + σ 2
                     φσ 2                  αL2 [φ2 − ρ2 ] + φσ 2               ρσ 2
             γ1L = 2         ,     γ1
                                     F
                                        =                        ,   ρ 1 =             .    (A.4)
                  αL φ + σ 2                     αL2 φ + σ 2               αL2 φ + σ 2

The market maker forecasts terminal positions based on the conjectured strategies:

                        M̃1L := E[XTL |F1 ] = (1 + αL )M1L + δL µ
                         and E[XTF |F1 ] = (1 + αF )M1F + βF P1 + δF µ.

We use ρ̃1 := (1 + αL )ρ1 to denote the market maker’s posterior covariance of XTL and X0F
(the current positions at the end of the first period). The first period price P1 is obtained by
solving the equation P1 = E[XTL + XTF |F1 ] for P1 , which yields (6)-(7). After observing Ψ1 ,
the follower forms an updated mean belief Y1F about XTL by first using the projection theorem
to form an updated belief about X0L (from his prior Y0F ) assuming Ψ1 = αL X0L + δL µ + σZ1 ,
and then forecasting the terminal position based on the conjectured strategy for the leader,
resulting in (8).
    In period 2, given Ψ2 , the market maker’s updated mean beliefs about (XTL , XTF ) follow
from the projection theorem and conjectured strategies, i.e., assuming Ψ2 = αF X0F + βF P1 +
δF µ + σZ2 :

   MTF := E[XTF |F2 ]
                                           αF γ1F (1 + αF )
        = (1 + αF )M1F + βF P1 + δF µ +                     [Ψ2 − αF M1F − βF P1 − δF µ],   (A.5)
                                            αF2 γ1F + σ 2
                                    αF ρ̃1
   MTL := E[XTL |F2 ] = M̃1L +    2 F
                                             [Ψ2 − αF M1F − βF P1 − δF µ].                  (A.6)
                                 αF γ1 + σ 2

The second period price is then simply P2 = MTL + MTF , which produces (9)-(10).


A.2     Preliminaries for Equilibrium Construction
In this section, we state and prove a proposition, to be used in proving our main results,
that characterizes equilibria via a system of equations and inequality conditions derived from
the players’ first and second order conditions and the pricing equations. The first half of
the proposition below provides necessary conditions for equilibrium. The second half of the


                                                37
proposition is a strong converse: it shows that we can focus on the system of equations for
the signaling coefficients (αF , αL ); these coefficients determine price impact and therefore
pin down the remaining coefficients.

Proposition A.1. The tuple (αF , βF , δF , αL , δL ) with a pricing rule defined by (6)-(7) and
(9)-(10) characterize an equilibrium only if Λ1 6= 0, Λ2 > 12 , βF 6= 1, φ(1 + αL ) + ρ 6= 0, and

                        αF2 = σ 2 /γ1F ,                                                     (A.7)
                                         ρ
                           βF = −                αF ,                                        (A.8)
                                  φ(1 + αL ) + ρ
                                (αL + δL )ρ − αL φ − (φ − ρ)
                           δF =                              αF ,                            (A.9)
                                        φ(1 + αL ) + ρ
                                 σ2               ραF
                           αL =      −                         ,                            (A.10)
                                φαL φ(1 + αL ) + ρ(1 + αF )
                                   σ2
                           δL = −     ,                                                     (A.11)
                                  φαL
                           0 ≥ σ 2 − αL2 φ − 2αL [ρ(1 + αF ) + φ],                          (A.12)
                           0 ≥ −αF [σ 2 (φ + ρ(1 + αL )) + αL2 (φ2 − ρ2 )].                 (A.13)

Further, if ρ 6= 0, one of the following conditions must hold:
                             s
                                      σ 4 + αL2 σ 2 φ     (ρ + φ + φαL )(αL2 φ − σ 2 )
      αF = αF,1 (αL ) :=                                =                              or   (A.14)
                                 σ 2 φ + αL2 (φ2 − ρ2 )      ρ[σ 2 − αL (1 + αL )φ]
                             s
                                      σ 4 + αL2 σ 2 φ     (ρ + φ + φαL )(αL2 φ − σ 2 )
      αF = αF,2 (αL ) := −                              =                              .    (A.15)
                                 σ 2 φ + αL2 (φ2 − ρ2 )      ρ[σ 2 − αL (1 + αL )φ]

Conversely, suppose (αF , αL ) satisfy (A.12) and (A.13), either (A.14) or (A.15), and φ(1 +
αL )+ρ 6= 0. Then (i) (βF , δF , δL ) are well defined via (A.8), (A.9), and (A.11), with βF 6= 1;
(ii) Λ1 6= 0 and Λ2 6= 0 are well defined via (7) and (10); and (iii) the associated strategies
and pricing rule constitute an equilibrium.

Proof. We first establish necessity. It is immediate from the leader’s second order condition
(15) that Λ1 6= 0 and βF 6= 1; likewise, (14) implies Λ2 > 12 , and in particular, Λ2 6= 0. Next,
we analyze the follower’s conditions. The follower’s FOC expands as

       0 = −EF [P1 + Λ2 {Ψ2 − E[Ψ2 |F1 ]}] − Λ2 θF + (X0F + θF ) + Y1F                      (A.16)
         = −P1 − Λ2 (θF − [αF M1F + βF P1 + δF µ]) − Λ2 θF + (X0F + θF ) + Y1F ,            (A.17)

which we impose at the candidate strategy in (4). Since Λ1 6= 0, we can invert (6) to write

                                                   38
Ψ1 = µ(αL + δL ) + P1Λ−P  1
                            0
                              , with P0 given by (5), which we can use to eliminate Ψ1 in M1F
and Y1F (see (A.3) and (8)). Recalling that Y0F (appearing in Y1F ) is a linear combination
of (X0F , µ), the resulting equation is linear in (X0F , P1 , µ), and it must be identically zero
over (X0F , P1 , µ) ∈ R3 . Hence, the coefficients on each variable (X0F , P1 , µ) must be zero,
delivering three equations. The first of these, from the coefficient on X0F , is

                                                     ∂Y1F  Λ̃2
                       0 = −2Λ2 αF + (1 + αF ) +        F
                                                          = F (σ 2 − αF2 γ1F ),               (A.18)
                                                     ∂X0   γ1

                 γF
where Λ̃2 := α2 γ F1 +σ2 × [1 + αF + ρ1 /γ1F ]. The second, from the coefficient on P1 , is
               F 1



                                          ∂M1F                      ∂Y F
                                               
                         0 = −1 − Λ2 −αF           − Λ 2 βF + βF + 1
                                            ∂P1                      ∂P1
                                      ρσ 2 (1 − βF )
                                                                     
                              Λ̃2                                   F
                           =− F                            + βF αF γ1 .                       (A.19)
                              γ1 φ(1 + αL ) + ρ(1 + αF )

The third, from the coefficient on µ, is

                                     ∂M1F               ∂Y F
                                           
                     0 = −Λ2     −αF    − Λ2 δF + δF + 1
                                      ∂µ                 ∂µ
                                 (2 + αF + αL + δF + δL )ρσ 2
                                                                        
                         Λ̃2   2                                       F
                       = F −σ +                               − αF δF γ1 ,                    (A.20)
                         γ1         φ(1 + αL ) + ρ(1 + αF )

where the µ terms of M1F and Y1F incorporate the elimination of Ψ1 described above.
     We argue that in any linear equilibrium, the right hand sides of (A.18)-(A.20) are well
defined and Λ̃2 6= 0. First, γ1F > 0 for any (finite) αF . Second, since Λ2 6= 0, Λ̃2 is well
defined and nonzero. Third, Λ1 6= 0 implies φ(1 + αL ) + ρ(1 + αF ) 6= 0 in the denominators
in (A.19) and (A.20).
     We can now derive (A.7)-(A.9) and (A.13). Since Λ̃2 6= 0 is necessary for equilibrium,
(A.18) reduces to (A.7). (Note that this implies αF 6= 0.) Using this fact to write αF γ1F =
σ 2 /αF , (A.19) reduces to

                          ρσ 2 (1 − βF )          σ2
                                                    
                  Λ̃2
               0=− F                         + βF
                  γ1 φ(1 + αL ) + ρ(1 + αF )      αF
                                Λ̃2 σ 2
                 =− F                              [ραF + βF (φ[1 + αL ] + ρ)] .              (A.21)
                   γ1 αF [φ(1 + αL ) + ρ(1 + αF )]

We claim that φ(1+αL )+ρ 6= 0 in equilibrium. By way of contradiction, if φ(1+αL )+ρ = 0,
then (A.21) implies αF = 0 or ρ = 0. Equation (A.7) rules out αF = 0. And if ρ = 0, we


                                                39
have αL = −1, and thus Λ1 = 0, violating the leader’s SOC. Hence, φ(1 + αL ) + ρ 6= 0, and
(A.21) reduces to (A.8). Analogous arguments yield (A.9) from (A.20). Lastly, using (A.7)
to eliminate αF2 terms, the follower’s SOC (14) reduces to (A.13).
    Next, we derive the leader’s identities (A.10)-(A.11) and condition (A.12). For the leader,
the following FOC, evaluated at the conjectured strategy, must hold for all (X0L , µ) ∈ R2 :

               0 = −EL [P0 + Λ1 {Ψ1 − E[Ψ1 ]}] − θΛ1 + (X0L + θL ) + EL [XTF ]
                                   ∂EL [XTF ]                                             (A.22)
                   + (X0L + θL )              .
                                     ∂θL

Setting the coefficients on these variables to 0 and using (A.7) and (A.8), it is straightforward
to show that (A.22) reduces to (A.10)-(A.11) where αL 6= 0 in equilibrium since the leader’s
SOC implies Λ1 6= 0. The leader’s SOC is equivalent to (A.12).
    To obtainq(A.14) or (A.15), first note that the positive and negative values of αF solving
                  σ 4 +α2L σ 2 φ
(A.7) are ± σ2 φ+α2 (φ      2 −ρ2 ) . Next, solve for αF in (A.10) by multiplying through by the
                       L
denominators on the right hand side and rearrange terms to obtain

                    αF ρ[σ 2 − αL (1 + αL )φ] = [φ(1 + αL ) + ρ](αL2 φ − σ 2 ).           (A.23)

We claim that σ 2 −αL (1+αL )φ 6= 0 in any solution to (A.23). Indeed, since φ(1+αL )+ρ 6= 0,
σ 2 − αL (1 + αL )φ = 0 would imply αL2 φ − σ 2 = 0, but these two equations cannot hold
simultaneously. Thus, if ρ 6= 0, (A.23) implies

                                        (ρ + φ + φαL )(αL2 φ − σ 2 )
                               αF =                                  .
                                           ρ[σ 2 − αL (1 + αL )φ]

Since the solutions to (A.7) are αF = αF,1 and αF = αF,2 , we obtain (A.14) and (A.15).
    For the sufficiency half of the proposition, take (αF , αL ) as in the statement. Clearly,
either αF = αF,1 or αF = αF,2 implies (A.7). Now given φ(1 + αL ) + ρ 6= 0, we can multiply
through (A.14) or (A.15) by ρ[σ 2 − αL (1 + αL )φ] to recover (A.23). To recover (A.10) from
(A.23), note that (A.12) can be rewritten as σ 2 +αL2 φ−2αL [ρ(1+αF )+φ(1+αL )] ≤ 0, which
implies αL 6= 0 and φ(1 + αL ) + ρ(1 + αF ) 6= 0; thus, the steps used to obtain (A.23) from
(A.10) can be reversed, and also δL is well defined by (A.11). Given that φ(1 + αL ) + ρ 6= 0
by supposition, (βF , δF ) are well defined by (A.8)-(A.9). Further, φ(1 + αL ) + ρ(1 + αF ) 6= 0
                        ραF
implies that 1 6= − φ(1+α  L )+ρ
                                 = βF . This establishes (i). Hence, Λ1 and Λ2 are well defined
by (7) and (10), respectively. Moreover, by construction, (A.12)-(A.13) imply (15)-(14), so
Λ1 6= 0 and Λ2 6= 0, establishing (ii).
    For part (iii) of the sufficiency claim, observe that since the players’ best responses


                                                  40
problems are quadratic, it suffices to check first and second order conditions. Given that
the inequalities Λ1 6= 0, Λ2 6= 0, βF 6= 1, φ(1 + αL ) + ρ 6= 0 are satisfied, the equations
(A.7)-(A.11) imply the FOCs (A.16) and (A.22) by construction, and as noted for part (ii),
the SOCs (15) and (14) are satisfied.


A.3       Gap Form of Follower’s Strategy
The following result formalizes the claim made about the follower’s strategy in footnote 20,
which we use to confirm that the follower’s trade is unpredictable as anticipated in the main
body.
                                                            F       F    F
Lemma
 q 2 A.1. In any linear equilibrium (PBS q or2 otherwise), θ = αF (X0 − M1 ) for αF =
± γσF . Hence, in a PBS equilibrium, θF = γσF (θF − M1F ).
      1                                            1

                                                                            q 2
                                                                               σ
Proof. By Proposition A.1, αF must satisfy (A.7), so either αF = αF,1 :=      γ1F
                                                                                  or αF =
         q 2
αF,2 := − γσF . Moreover, in a PBS equilibrium (by definition), αF > 0, so αF = αF,1 . Note
             1
that by the same proposition, (βF , δF ) are characterized by (A.8)-(A.9).
    Now express M1F in terms of P1 and µ by using (6) to replace the surprise term Ψ1 −
µ(αL + δL ) in (A.3):

                                               α L ρ P1 − P 0
                                M1F = µ +    2
                                                              ,                         (A.24)
                                            αL φ + σ 2 Λ1

where P0 is linear in µ (see (5)). Substituting (A.24) into θF = αF,i (X0F − M1F ), i ∈ {1, 2},
then yields an expression for the follower’s strategy in which the coefficient on X0F is αF,i ,
and the coefficients on (P1 , µ) equal (βF,i , δF,i ) when (A.8)-(A.9) hold. This confirms that
the follower’s strategy has the stated form.


A.4       Proof of Theorem 1
We first prove the claims about the follower’s strategy up to some inequalities involving
the leader’s strategy that we establish later in the proof. To prove that E[θF |F1 ] = 0, we
simply use the fact that, by Lemma A.1, θF = αF (X0F − M1F ), where M1F was defined as
E[X0F |F1 ], and take expectations conditional on F1 . Lemma A.1 also establishes that in
                           p
a PBS equilibrium αF = σ 2 /γ1F . To sign βF , recall that αF , αL > 0 and |ρ| ≤ φ, so
sign(βF ) = −sign(ρ) via (A.8). Similarly, from (A.9), sign(δF ) = sign((αL + δL )ρ − αL φ −
(φ − ρ)). Since αL φ > 0 and φ ≥ ρ, the sign will be negative if (αL + δL )ρ ≤ 0, which we will
establish when characterizing the leader’s equilibrium strategy. Turning to the inequality


                                              41
βF < 1, this is immediate when ρ ≥ 0, since this implies βF ≤ 0. For ρ < 0, note that by
                                            σ2     βF
using (A.8), (A.10) can be written as αL = φα L
                                                + 1−β F
                                                        . Our characterization of the leader’s
                                                             K 2      2
strategy will show that αL > αK , and thus αL > (ααL) = φα   σ
                                                               L
                                                                                    βF
                                                                 . It follows that 1−β F
                                                                                         > 0, and
thus βF ∈ (0, 1).
    The rest of the proof is divided into four components as follows. First, we first address
ρ = 0, in which case the unique linear equilibrium can be characterized in closed form
(Proposition A.2). Second, we consider ρ ∈ (0, φ], for which we establish existence of a PBS
equilibrium and uniqueness within the PBS class (Proposition A.3). Third, we show that
for all |ρ| > 0 sufficiently small (allowing for positive or negative ρ), there exists a unique
equilibrium within the whole linear class, and it is a PBS equilibrium (Proposition A.4). For
both positive and negative ρ we prove the inequalities stated in the proposition. Fourth, we
show that a PBS equilibrium fails to exist if ρ is sufficiently low (Proposition A.5), and we
construct ρ ∈ (−φ, 0) presented in the proposition and ρ0 mentioned in footnote 20. Recall
             q
                2
that α := σφ .
       K


Proposition A.2. For ρ = 0, there is a unique linear equilibrium: for i ∈ {L, F }, trader i
trades θi = αK (X0i − µ), and E[θL |F0 ] = 0.

Proof. For ρ =q0, (A.13) becomes −αF [σ 2 φ + αL2 ] ≤ 0. The only solution to (A.7) satisfying
                σ2
this is αF =    γF
                   = αK (as ρ = 0 implies γ1F = φ). Equation (A.10) then yields αL =
                  1

±αK . Of these, only αL = αK satisfies (A.12). Given (αF , αL ) = (αK , αK ), (βF , δF , δL ) =
(0, −αK , −αK ) is the unique solution to (A.8), (A.9), and (A.11). These strategies and the
pricing rule in (6) and (9) satisfy the first and second order conditions, so they constitute
an equilibrium. Moreover, E[θL |F0 ] = E[αK (X0L − µ)|F0 ] = αK (µ − µ) = 0.

    In the next two propositions, note that the ranking of αL and −δL determines the sign
of E[θL |F0 ] = (αL + δL )µ.

Proposition A.3. If ρ ∈ (0, φ], there is a unique PBS equilibrium, and 0 < αL < αK < −δL .

Proof. By Proposition A.1, (A.14) is a necessary condition for (αF , αL ) to be part of PBS
equilibrium.
   √         Let L(αL ) and R(αL ) denote the left and right sides of (A.14). Define α̂ :=
−φ+   φ2 +4σ 2 φ
      2φ
                  > 0 to be the positive root of the denominator on the right side of     (A.14).
                K
Note that α > α̂.
     L is positive and strictly increasing in αL for αL ≥ 0. Meanwhile, R is continuous on
[0, α̂) ∪ (α̂, +∞) and satisfies R(α̂−) = −∞, R(α̂+) = +∞, and R(αK ) = 0. Further, for
αL ∈ [0, α̂) ∪ (α̂, +∞),

                                      (αL2 φ − σ 2 )2 + (ρ + φ)(αL2 + σ 2 ) + 2αL3 φ2
                      R0 (αL ) = −φ                                                   ,
                                                  ρ[σ 2 − αL (1 + αL )φ]2

                                                     42
which is unambiguously strictly negative when ρ > 0. Thus, R is strictly decreasing on [0, α̂)
and on (α̂, +∞). These facts imply that there exists a solution to (A.14) on (α̂, αK ), and
this is the only solution on (α̂, +∞). Since L is increasing for αL ≥ 0 with L(0) > 0, while
R is decreasing on [0, α̂) with R(0) = −(ρ + φ)/ρ < 0 < L(0) (given ρ > 0), there is no
solution on [0, α̂), so the solution just found is unique among αL ≥ 0. By (A.11), αL < αK
implies αK < −δL (and δL < 0).
    Given this unique candidate for PBS equilibrium, we now verify SOCs. For the leader,
note that since αL , αF > 0, (A.12) is bounded above by σ 2 − αL2 φ − αL φ, which is negative
since αL > α̂. For the follower, (A.13) holds by inspection for ρ > 0 since αL > 0 and
αF > 0. Finally, αL > 0 implies the condition φ(1 + αL ) + ρ 6= 0. Therefore, the sufficiency
part of Proposition A.1 applies.

   Next, we turn to |ρ| > 0 close to 0.

Proposition A.4. If |ρ| > 0 is sufficiently small, there exists a unique linear equilibrium,
and it is a PBS equilibrium. If ρ > 0, αL < αK < −δL , and if ρ < 0, αL > αK > −δL > 0.

Proof. Assume throughout that ρ 6= 0. Let us call any pair (αL , αF ) satisfying (A.14) or
(A.15) a candidate signaling pair. We construct two candidate signaling pairs (αL∗ , αF∗ ) and
(αL[ , αF[ ). We then show that for small |ρ|, there are no other candidate signaling pairs
satisfying the leader’s second order condition, and of these two pairs, only (αL∗ , αF∗ ) satisfies
the follower’s SOC. We then invoke the converse part of Proposition A.1 to establish existence
of a unique equilibrium based on (αL∗ , αF∗ ).
     We claim that if ρ < 0, there exists αL∗ ∈ (αK , ∞) solving (A.14) and αL[ ∈ (α̂, αK ) solving
(A.15). Analogous arguments for the case ρ > 0 establish the existence of αL∗ ∈ (α̂, αK ) and
αL[ ∈ (αK , ∞); we omit this case for brevity. In either case, we will ultimately show that
αL∗ is the unique equilibrium value of αL for small |ρ|. As before, let R(αL ) denote the right
hand side common to (A.14) and (A.15). Note that R is continuous on (α̂, ∞), and it has the
properties limαL →+∞ R(αL ) = +∞, limαL ↓α̂ R(αL ) = −∞, and R(αK ) = 0. The left hand
side of (A.14) is strictly positive and bounded, so by the intermediate value theorem (IVT),
there exists a solution αL∗ ∈ (αK , ∞) to (A.14). Similarly, the left hand side of (A.15) is
strictly negative and bounded, so by the IVT, there exists a solution αL[ ∈ (α̂, αK ) to (A.15).
     Define αF∗ := αF,1 (αL∗ ) and define αF[ = αF,2 (αL[ ). By definition, both (αL∗ , αF∗ ) and
(αL[ , αF[ ) are candidate signaling pairs.
     To assess other candidate signaling pairs, we derive a polynomial equation such that
(αL , αF ) is a candidate signaling pair only if αL is a root of this equation. By squaring either




                                                43
(A.14) or (A.15), we obtain a necessary condition
                                                                                      2
                          σ 4 + αL2 σ 2 φ              (ρ + φ + φαL )(αL2 φ − σ 2 )
                                                   
                                               =                                           ,     (A.25)
                   σ 2 φ + αL2 (−(ρ)2 + (φ)2 )            ρ[σ 2 − αL (1 + αL )φ]

and by cross multiplying, an eighth-degree polynomial equation

                   8
                   X
 0 = Q(αL ; ρ) =         Ai αLi ,   where                                                        (A.26)
                   i=0

A8 = φ4 (ρ2 − φ2 ),                                                     A7 = 2(ρ − φ)φ3 (ρ + φ)2 ,
A6 = φ2 (ρ2 − φ2 )[ρ2 + 2ρφ + φ(−σ 2 + φ)],                             A5 = 2σ 2 φ2 [−2ρ3 − ρ2 φ + ρφ2 + φ3 ],
A4 = σ 2 φ[−2ρ4 − 4ρ3 φ + 2ρφ3 + φ3 (σ 2 + φ)],                         A3 = 2σ 4 φ[ρ3 + ρ2 φ + ρφ2 + φ3 ],
A2 = σ 4 [ρ4 + 2ρ3 φ + 2ρφ3 + φ3 (−σ 2 + φ) + ρ2 φ(−σ 2 + 3φ)], A1 = −2σ 6 φ[ρ2 + φρ + φ2 ],
A0 = σ 6 [ρ2 (σ 2 − φ) − 2ρφ2 − φ3 ].

     Being an eighth-degree polynomial, Q(·; ρ) has exactly eight complex roots, counting
multiplicity; two of these are αL∗ and αL[ .
     We now show that of all candidate signaling pairs, when |ρ| is sufficiently small, only
(αL , αF∗ ) satisfies both activists’ SOCs. To that end, it is useful to approximate all of the
   ∗

roots of (A.26) for small |ρ|. We will make use of a standard result on the continuous
dependence of the (complex) roots of a polynomial on its coefficients:
Lemma A.2 (Uherka and Sergott (1977)). Let p(x) = xn + ni=1 ai xn−i and p∗ (x) = xn +
                                                                      P
Pn ∗ n−i
   i=1 ai x     be two degree-n polynomials. Suppose λ∗ is a root of p∗ with multiplicity m and
 > 0. Then for |ai − a∗i | sufficiently small (i = 1, . . . , n), p has at least m roots within  of
λ∗ .
    For a proof, see Uherka and Sergott (1977) or the references therein.
    We apply this lemma to the polynomial Q indexed by ρ. (While Lemma A.2 assumes a
leading coefficient of 1, we can divide through our polynomial Q(·; ρ) in (A.26) by A8 , which
is bounded away from 0 provided that |ρ| < |φ|, allowing us to apply the lemma.) In the
limit as ρ → 0, the polynomial is

                         Q(αL ; 0) = −(1 + αL )2 φ3 (σ 2 − αL2 φ)2 (σ 2 + αL2 φ).

By inspection, Q(·; 0) is nonpositive and has double roots at −1 and ±αK , and it has complex
roots at ±αK i.
   Lemma A.2 then has two important implications about candidate signaling pairs. We


                                                   44
state the first one as a corollary.
Corollary A.1. As ρ → 0, αL∗ → αK , αL[ → αK , αF∗ → αK , and αF[ → −αK .
    Since αL∗ , αL[ ≥ 0, these can only converge to αK (among the roots of Q(·; 0)); the
corresponding limits of αF∗ and αF[ are then immediate. The second implication of Lemma
A.2 is that for any  > 0, there exists ρ > 0 such that for all ρ with 0 < |ρ| < ρ all of the
other six roots of Q(·; ρ) lie within  of −1, −αK , or ±αK i. Hence, for such ρ, αL∗ and αL[
are roots with multiplicity 1, and they are uniquely defined.
    We can now check SOCs: for the leader in Lemma A.3 and the follower in Lemma A.4.
Lemma A.3. For |ρ| > 0 sufficiently small, the candidate signaling pairs (αL∗ , αF∗ ) and
(αL[ , αF[ ) satisfy (A.12) and are the only candidate signaling pairs that do.

Proof. First, we show that (αL∗ , αF∗ ) satisfy (A.12) for sufficiently small |ρ| > 0. As ρ → 0,
                                                                         √
the right hand side of (A.12) tends to σ 2 − (αK )2 φ − 2αK φ = −2σ φ < 0, where we have
used that αL∗ → αK by Corollary A.1. A nearly identical calculation shows (αL[ , αF[ ) also
satisfy (A.12) for sufficiently small |ρ| > 0.
    The remaining candidates for equilibria are associated with the real roots of (A.26)
other than αL∗ , αL[ . By Lemma A.2, as ρ → 0, these roots must converge to the other
roots of Q(·; 0), namely −1, −αK , or ±αK i. Any root of Q(·; ρ) that is in a sufficiently
small neighborhood of ±αK i has a nonzero complex component and is not an equilibrium
candidate. Therefore, we need only consider candidates in neighborhoods of −1 or −αK .
In the first case, for any αF ∈ {αF,1 , αF,2 }, the right hand side of (A.12) converges to
σ 2 − (−1)2 φ − 2(−1)φ = σ 2 + φ > 0. In the second case, for any αF ∈ {αF,1 , αF,2 }, the right
                                                2                     √
hand side of (A.12) converges to σ 2 − −αK φ − 2 −αK φ = 2σ φ > 0. Thus, for |ρ| > 0
sufficiently small, all roots of Q(·; ρ) other than αL∗ and αL[ violate the leader’s SOC.

Lemma A.4. For |ρ| > 0 sufficiently small, the candidate signaling pair (αL∗ , αF∗ ) satisfies
(A.13), while the pair (αL[ , αF[ ) does not.

Proof. For the pair (αL∗ , αF∗ ), the right hand side of (A.13) tends to −αK [σ 2 φ + (αK )2 φ2 ] < 0
as ρ → 0. For the pair (αL[ , αF[ ), it tends to αK [σ 2 φ + (αK )2 φ2 ] > 0, violating (A.13).

    To conclude the proof of Proposition A.4, from Lemmas A.3 and A.4, we have that for
|ρ| > 0 sufficiently small, (αL∗ , αF∗ ) is the unique candidate signaling pair satisfying both
(A.12) and (A.13). Hence, in any linear equilibrium, (αL , αF ) must equal (αL∗ , αF∗ ). As
ρ → 0, φ(1 + αL∗ ) + ρ → φ(1 + αK ) > 0, allowing us to apply the “converse” part of
Proposition A.1 when |ρ| is sufficiently small, giving us existence. Since we have already



                                                 45
shown that 0 < αL∗ < αK if ρ > 0, (A.11) implies −δL > αK in this case, and likewise when
ρ < 0, we have αL∗ > αK which implies 0 < −δL < αK .

    By the results above, a unique PBS equilibrium exists if ρ is (i) positive or (ii) sufficiently
close to zero. Thus, ρ := inf{ρ0 ∈ [−φ, φ] : a PBS equilibrium exists for all ρ ∈ [ρ0 , φ]} < 0
and ρ0 := inf{ρ0 ∈ [−φ, φ] : a unique PBS equilibrium exists for all ρ ∈ [ρ0 , φ]} < 0, where
ρ0 ≥ ρ is obvious. To show that ρ > −φ, we invoke the following result.

Proposition A.5. Fix σ, φ > 0. There exists ρ̂ ∈ (−φ, 0) such that if ρ < ρ̂, there is no
PBS equilibrium.

Proof. The proof is based on the following two lemmas.
Lemma A.5. There is no [−φ, φ]-valued sequence (ρn )n∈N that converges to −φ and has the
property that there is an associated sequence of PBS equilibria such that (αF,n )n∈N is bounded.

Proof. Suppose by way of contradiction that there exists such a sequence with associated
PBS equilibria indexed by n. We claim that (αL,n )n∈N is bounded. To see this, take n
sufficiently large that ρn 6= 0, and note that the right hand side of (A.14) must be bounded,
since it equals αF,n which we have supposed is bounded. Since the numerator on the right
hand side is cubic while the denominator is quadratic, it must be that (αL,n )n∈N is bounded.
    Given that (αF,n )n∈N and (αL,n )n∈N are both bounded, we can pass to a subsequence such
that αF,n → αF ≥ 0 and αL,n → αL ≥ 0, where the inequalities follow from αF,n , αL,n ≥ 0 in
PBS equilibria by definition. Then taking limits in (A.14), we have
                                            s
                                                σ2
                                     αF =          + α2L > αL .                             (A.27)
                                                φ

The right hand side of (A.12) then has limit

    σ 2 + α2L φ − 2αL [−φ(1 + αF ) + φ(1 + αL )] = σ 2 + α2L φ + 2αL φ(αF − αL ) > 0,       (A.28)

where αF − αL > 0 by (A.27). But since (A.12) is satisfied for all n, this limit must be
nonpositive, a contradiction.

Lemma A.6. There is no [−φ, φ]-valued sequence (ρn )n∈N that converges to −φ and has the
property that there is an associated sequence of PBS equilibria such that (αF,n ) → +∞.

Proof. Suppose by way of contradiction that there were such a sequence. From the expression
                                                                  αFn
for αF,n in (A.14), it must be that αL,n → +∞. We claim that αL,n     → 1. To obtain this,


                                                 46
divide through (A.14) by αL,n to get

                           αFn    (ρn + φ + φαL,n )(αL2 φ − σ 2 )
                                =                                   → 1.
                           αL,n   ρn αL,n [σ 2 − αL,n (1 + αL,n )φ]

We now show that (A.12) eventually fails. The right hand side of (A.12) rearranges to

                    σ 2 + αL,n
                           2
                               φ − 2αL,n [φ + ρn + αL,n (ρn αF,n /αL,n + φ)].            (A.29)

                       α  F,n
Since φ + ρn → 0 and αL,n     → 1, for any  > 0, the expression in square brackets in (A.29) is
less than αL,n for sufficiently large n. Hence, (A.29) is eventually greater than σ 2 + αL,n
                                                                                          2
                                                                                              φ−
    2
2αL,n , which is positive for  < φ/2, violating (A.12), contradicting equilibrium.

    The existence of ρ̂ > −φ then follows immediately from Lemmas A.5 and A.6, since if
there is no such ρ̂ there would exist a sequence (ρn )n∈N with ρn → −φ and an associated
sequence of PBS equilibria such that either (i) αF,n → +∞ along some subsequence (which
is ruled out by Lemma A.6) or (ii) (αF,n )n∈N is bounded (ruled out by Lemma A.5). Since
Proposition A.4 shows that a PBS equilibrium exists for some ρ < 0, we have ρ̂ < 0.

   For any ρ̂ as in Proposition A.5, ρ ≥ ρ̂ > −φ. This concludes the proof of Theorem 1.


A.5     Monotonicity of leader’s strategy coefficients
The following result establishes the decreasing patterns of αL and δL with respect to ρ shown
in Figure 1. Note that Proposition A.2 established that when ρ = 0, αL = αK = −δL .

Proposition A.6. Suppose ρ > ρ0 , where ρ0 < 0 was defined in the proof of Theorem 1.
Then in the unique PBS equilibrium, αL and δL are decreasing in ρ.

Proof. Due to the identity (A.11), it is sufficient to prove the claim for αL . First suppose
ρ > 0. The right hand side of (A.14) crosses the left hand side from above at αL . Moreover,
when ρ > 0, the right hand side is positive and decreasing in ρ at αL while the left hand side
is increasing in ρ. Hence, αL is decreasing in ρ. In turn, when ρ < 0, the right hand side of
(A.14) crosses the left hand side from below; the left hand side is decreasing in ρ; and the
right hand side is increasing in ρ at αL . Hence, again, αL is unambiguously decreasing in ρ.
The result then follows since αL is continuous in ρ at ρ = 0 by Corollary A.1.




                                                47
A.6      Proof of Proposition 1
For both parts (a) and (b), we focus on equilibria with positive weight on private information,
i.e. linear equilibria in which

                          θL := αL ξ L + δL µ + ηL ,
                          θF := αF ξ F + βF P1 + δF µ + ηF = αF (ξ F − M1F ),

for ξ ∈ {V, ζ}, where M1F := E[ξ F |F1 ] (see below), and where αL , αF > 0. 40 In what follows,
we explain how our argument works in broad terms, relegating the expanded first-order
equilibrium conditions for the strategy coefficients to the Mathematica file OtherPrivateIn
fo.nb on our websites—we omit these equations for brevity, but any claims that we make
about them below can be verified using that file.
    As a preliminary, a straightforward adaptation of the steps from the baseline analysis
can be used to show that the follower’s strategy must be a “gap strategy” in any linear
equilibrium, i.e. a strategy of the form θF = αF (ξ F − E[ξ F |F1 ]) which implies E[θF |F1 ] = 0.
Thus, we assume this form in what follows and show that, as long as ρ is not too negative,
there exists a unique equilibrium (within the class of linear equilibria with positive weights
on private information), and the leader trades according to

                                          θL = αK (ξ L − µ) + ηL ,                                      (A.30)
                 √
where αK = σ/ φ is the traditional Kyle coefficient (as defined originally) but, critically, the
intercept ηL is non-trivial, thus demonstrating that buy or sell orders arise in equilibrium.
                                         βF
Concretely, we prove that ηL = X0L 1−β      F
                                              , where βF < 1 and sign(βF ) = −sign(ρ)—thus
sign(E[θL |F0 ]) = sign(ηL ) = −sign(ρ). An implication is that the leader’s terminal position,

                                                 βF                          X0L
                     X0L + αK (ξ L − µ) +             X0L = αK (ξ L − µ) +        ,                     (A.31)
                                               1 − βF                      1 − βF

is increasing in her initial position X0L due to βF < 1.

A.6.1     Part (a)

Since the effort technology is unchanged, it continues to be optimal to choose effort equal to
the number of shares held; thus the firm’s final value will be V L + V F + XTL + XTF , where
   40
      Note that in this variation in which (i) the players start with non-trivial blocks and (ii) private infor-
mation is not linked to initial positions, the definition of a linear strategy allows for an intercept η that is
independent of µ. This is crucial, as it will be clear shortly. Importantly, it is easy to see from the players’
first-order conditions that such an intercept is always zero in the baseline model.


                                                      48
XTi = X0i + θi as before. Hence, the objective of activist i reduces to

                                                              1
               sup E[(V L + V F + XTi + XT−i )XTi − Pt(i) θi − (XTi )2 |V i , Ft(i)−1 ].
                θi                                            2

Learning and pricing Conjecturing linear strategies (with a gap strategy for the follower),
the ex ante expectation of firm value is

                                P0 = X0L + X0F + ηL + (2 + αL + δL )µ,

where we have used that the follower’s expected trade is 0 from an ex ante perspective. Since
the type distribution is unchanged, the players’ private prior beliefs about each other’s initial
positions have the same form as in the baseline model, with V L and V F playing the role of
X0L and X0F , respectively.
   Given Ψ1 , the market maker’s updated belief about V L is

                                                  αL φ
                  M1L := E[V L |F1 ] = µ +      2
                                                          {Ψ1 − µ(αL + δL ) − ηL } .
                                               αL φ + σ 2

   And the market maker’s updated belief about V F is

                                                   αL ρ
                  M1F := E[V F |F1 ] = µ +       2
                                                           {Ψ1 − µ(αL + δL ) − ηL } .
                                                αL φ + σ 2

    Since the market maker expects the follower to trade 0 conditional on first period order
flow,

                         P1 = X0L + X0F + ηL + E[V L + V F + θL |Ψ1 ]
                             = X0L + X0F + ηL + M1L (1 + αL ) + δL µ + M1F
                             = P0 + Λ1 {Ψ1 − µ(αL + δL ) − ηL } ,

where Λ1 := αL [ρ+(1+α
                α2L φ+σ 2
                         L )φ]
                               . This is identical (up to a possibly different value of αL ) to Λ1 in
the baseline model, using the identity (A.8) that βF satisfies in a gap strategy. Note that
Λ1 > 0 for any αL > 0, since ρ + φ ≥ 0.                                                             !
                                                                                             L
                                                                                           γ1   ρ 1
   The market maker’s posterior belief about (V L , V F ) has covariance matrix                      ,
                                                                                           ρ1 γ1F
where

                          φσ 2                 αL2 [φ2 − ρ2 ] + φσ 2                ρσ 2
              γ1L =               ,    γ1F =                         ,   ρ1 =               .
                      αL2 φ + σ 2                    αL2 φ + σ 2                αL2 φ + σ 2


                                                     49
   The follower’s mean posterior belief about the leader’s component V L is

                                           αL ν0F
                                                                              
                                                         P1 − P0
                      Y1F := Y0F +                                           F
                                                                 + αL (µ − Y0 ) .
                                       αL2 ν0F + σ 2       Λ1
                                                       |          {z           }
                                                            =Ψ1 −(αL Y0F +δL µ)−ηL


   After seeing Ψ2 , the market maker again updates beliefs about V L and V F :

                                    αF γ1F                                        αF ρ 1
              M2F := M1F +                     Ψ2      and M2L := M1L +                    Ψ2 .
                                 αF2 γ1F + σ 2                                  2 F
                                                                               αF γ1 + σ 2

   The price is then

                                            αF [(1 + αL )ρ1 + (1 + αF )γ1F ]
                           P2 = P1 + Ψ 2                                     .
                                                     αF2 γ1F + σ 2
                                            |              {z             }
                                                              =:Λ2


This Λ2 is equivalent to the one in the baseline model.

Optimality conditions and equilibrium characterization The follower’s first order
condition is

                    0 = E[V L + θL |V F , F1 ] + V F + X0L + X0F + θF − P1 − 2Λ2 θF
                          Y1F (1 + αL ) + δL µ + ηL + V F + X0L + X0F − P1
             =⇒ θF =                                                       .
                                                2Λ2 − 1

   It is straightforward to check that the RHS is equivalent to αF (V F − M1F ) for αF =
                                                               and δF = (αL +δφ(1+α
                                                                              L )ρ−αL φ−(φ−ρ)
p                                                     ραF
  σ 2 /γ1F . The remaining coefficients are βF = − φ(1+α L )+ρ                      L )+ρ
                                                                                              αF ,
and ηF = −βF (X0L + X0F + ηL ). Note that βF has the opposite sign of ρ.
   The leader’s FOC is

0 = −EL [P0 + Λ1 {Ψ1 − E[Ψ1 ]}] − θΛ1
                                                                     =Λ1 β
                                                z }| F {
                                                      F
        L    L     L    L       F       L    L ∂EL [XT ]
    + (X0 + θ ) + V + Y0 + EL [XT ] + (X0 + θ )     L
                                                                                                  (A.32)
      |            {z            } |
                  =EL [firm value]
                                              {z ∂θ }
                                                       value of manipulation

  = −EL [P1 ] − θL Λ1 + V L + Y0L (1 + αF ) + βF EL [P1 ] + δF µ + ηF + X0L + θL (1 + βF Λ1 ).
                                                                                


    Matching coefficients on V L and µ and the intercept yields three equations. After sub-
stituting in the follower’s strategy derived above, it is easy to verify that the coefficients


                                                       50
(αL , δL ) = (αK , −αK ) solve the V L - and µ- components of the FOC, and these are the only
solutions with αL > 0 when ρ is positive or sufficiently close to 0. 41 The last equation,
derived from the intercept, yields ηL = −X0L ρ(1+αFρα   F
                                                      )+φ(1+αL )
                                                                        βF
                                                                 = X0L 1−β F
                                                                             . The second order
conditions are the same as before:

                                    1 − 2Λ1 (1 − βF ) < 0, for i = L,
                                              1 − 2Λ2 < 0, for i = F.

By direct substitution of our closed form solution,
                                                      √ q σ2 φ
                                            φ + ρ + 2ρ 2φ2 −ρ2
                      1 − 2Λ1 (1 − βF ) = −            √           ,
                                                      σ φ
                                            q
                                                σ2 φ                 √
                                              2φ2 −ρ2
                                                      [2φ2 − ρ2 + ρ(σ φ + φ)]
                               1 − 2Λ2 = −                 √                  .
                                                            2σ 2 φ

By inspection, both expressions are negative if ρ ≥ 0 or if ρ < 0 but is sufficiently close to
0. Thus, there exists ρ ∈ (−φ, 0) such that both are satisfied when ρ ≥ ρ. Also, recalling
that Λ1 > 0 by inspection, the leader’s SOC implies βF < 1. Since sign(βF ) = −sign(ρ), it
follows that sign(E[θL |F0 ]) = sign(ηL ) = −sign(ρ): the leader sells (buys) on average when
correlation is positive (negative).

A.6.2      Part (b)

Given the cost function, trader i’s optimal effort is XTi + ζ i . Hence, trader i’s objective is

                                                       1
       sup E (XTi + XT−i + ζ i + ζ −i )XTi − Pt(i) θi − (XTi + ζ i )2 + ζ i (XTi + ζ i ) ζ i , Ft(i)−1 .
                                                                                                     
        θi                                             2

For each trader, this objective is the same as in the variation from part (a) of the proposition,
                                          i 2
with ζ i in place of V i , except for a (ζ2) term which is not strategically relevant. The
information structure is also the same. Thus, the equilibria are the same as in part (a), and
the leader trades according to (A.30).
  41
    Note that in the baseline model, for positive correlation, αL < αK . The greater sensitivity to type here
comes from the fact that in the original model, higher types had a greater benefit of manipulation since they,
by definition, had more initial shares.




                                                      51
A.7      Proof of Theorem 2
Part (i) Ex ante expected firm value is E[W L + W F ] = E[X0L + θL + X0F + θF ] = 2µ + E[θL ],
where we have used that terminal efforts coincide with terminal positions and that E[θF ] = 0.
The inequality E[W L + W F ] ≤ 2µ is therefore equivalent to E[θL ] ≤ 0, which holds iff ρ ≤ 0
(with strict inequality if ρ 6= 0) by Theorem 1. Moreover, since E[θL ] = (αL + δL )µ, we have
E[W L + W F ] = (2 + αL + δL )µ, which is monotone decreasing in ρ by Proposition A.6.
                                                                              σ           2
Part (ii) We show that αL + δL > −1. Using (A.11), we have αL + δL = αL − φα    L
                                                                                  =: h(αL ).
Note that h is increasing in αL for αL > 0, and from the proof of Proposition A.3, αL > α̂.
By direct calculation, h(α̂) = −1, so we are done.
Part (iii) Fix ρ > 0. For part (iii.1), we begin with some useful preliminary observations.
                                                                                                 √
Recall from the proof of Proposition A.3 that α̂ < αL < αK . But limσ→+∞ α̂σ = 1/ φ =
            K                          √                                            √
limσ→+∞ ασ , so limσ→+∞ ασL = 1/ φ. Then by (A.11), limσ→+∞ δσL = −1/ φ. These limits
imply limσ→+∞ αL = +∞ and limσ→+∞ δL = −∞. Let xL := αL /σ and xF := αF /σ.
    For the first limit in part (iii.1), recall from above that xL converges to a positive constant
as σ → +∞. Using the expression for αF in (A.14), it is easy to see that xF also converges
to a positive constant as σ → +∞. Now E[θL ] = µ(αL + δL ), and from (A.10) and (A.11),
αL + δL = − φ(1+αLρα    F
                      )+ρ(1+αF )
                                             ρxF
                                 = − (ρ+φ)/σ+φx   L +ρxF
                                                         , which converges to a negative constant as
σ → +∞ since both xL and xF converge to positive constants.                               
                                                                                    (αK )2
    For the second limit in part (iii.1), note that αL − αK = αLα+α      L
                                                                           K   αL −   αL
                                                                                             . The first
             xL √
factor is xL +1/ φ , which has a finite positive limit as σ → +∞, and the second equals αL +δL
which, as just argued, converges to a finite negative limit. Hence lim (αL − αK ) ∈ (−∞, 0).
                                                                         σ→+∞
    For part (iii.2), from the proof of Proposition 8, in the PBS equilibrium, αL /σ con-
verges to a positive constant as σ → 0, so it follows that limσ→0 αL = 0. By (A.11),
δL /σ = −1/(φαL /σ) converges to a negative constant, and thus limσ→0 δL = 0. Therefore,
                                                          p
limσ→0 E[θL ] = limσ→0 ((αL + δL )µ) = 0, and limσ→0 (αL − σ 2 /φ) = 0 − 0 = 0.


A.8      Proof of Proposition 5
We consider symmetric linear strategies of the form

                                           θi = αX0i + βµ.                                      (A.33)

We begin by characterizing belief updating and pricing, and then we use these to set up the
best-response problem of either trader. We show that in any symmetric PBS equilibrium,
α = √σ2φ , and then we show that there exists ρsim
                                               0   ∈ (−φ, 0) such that for all ρ ∈ [ρsim
                                                                                     0 , φ],
there exists a unique symmetric PBS equilibrium.

                                                  52
    After observing the total order flow, the market maker updates her beliefs about the
activists’ positions. Given the form of strategies and symmetry, it is sufficient for the market
maker to only estimate the sum of initial positions. By the projection theorem,

                                       Cov(X0i + X0j , Ψ1 )
                                                                                
                   i    j
                E[X0 + X0 |F1 ] = 2µ +                        Ψ1 − [2αµ + 2βµ]
                                           Var(Ψ1 )                 | {z }
                                                                     =E[θi +θj ]

                                                      2α (φ + ρ)
                                          = 2µ +                       {Ψ1 − 2µ(α + β)]} .
                                                   2α2 (φ + ρ) + σ 2

Hence, P1 is equal to

              P1 = E[W |F1 ] = E[XTi + XTj |F1 ] = (1 + α)E[X0i + X0j |F1 ] + 2µβ
                   = P0S + ΛS1 {Ψ1 − 2µ(α + β)]} ,

where P0S := 2µ(1 + α + β) is the ex ante expected firm value and ΛS1 := (1 + α) 2α22α(φ+ρ)
                                                                                     (φ+ρ)+σ 2
is Kyle’s lambda.
    Each activist then maximizes

                              (X0 + θi )2 + 2XT−i (X0i + θi )
                              i                                         
                                                                    i  i
                       sup E                                  − P1 θ X 0 .
                        θi                  2

             2(X i +θi )+2E[X −i |X i ]
The FOC is      0
                     2
                         T   0
                               − θi ∂P
                                    ∂θi
                                       1
                                         − P1 = 0. Plugging in the expression for ΛS1 , evaluating
at the conjectured strategy (A.33), and setting the coefficient on X0i to 0 yields an equation
for α with the following three roots:

                                                 σ     σ
                                            α = √ , − √ , −1.                                (A.34)
                                                 2φ    2φ

Similarly, setting the coefficient on µ to 0, we can pin down β from α as

                                                     σ2
                                             β= 2              .
                                               2σ − 4α(1 + α)φ

Since the second and third roots are negative, we have a unique candidate for a symmetric
PBS equilibrium. Note that with α = √σ2φ , we have β = −α = − √σ2φ .
Existence and uniqueness: For existence, we must check the SOC: 1 − 2ΛS1 ≤ 0. Plugging in
α = √σ2φ , this condition is equivalent to the inequality
                                                                          
                  2                           σ        2                σ
                σ − 2α(2 + α)(ρ + φ) = σ − 2 √                      2+ √     (φ + ρ) ≤ 0.
                                               2φ                       2φ


                                                           53
The left hand side is decreasing and continuous in ρ, and it is strictly negative when ρ = 0,
so there exists ρsim
                  0  ∈ (−φ, 0) such that the inequality is satisfied, and in turn a unique PBS
equilibrium exists, whenever ρ ∈ [ρsim
                                     0 , φ].
Payoff comparison: To compare payoffs to those in the sequential-move game, first consider
                                                                                     q
                                                                                       σ2
ρ = 0. The equilibrium is characterized in Proposition A.2, and αL = αF =               φ
                                                                                          . The
                                                     q
                                                         2
coefficient in the simultaneous-move game is αS := σ2φ (see (A.34)), where αL = αF > αS .
    To calculate the players’ expected payoffs in the sequential case (which are the same
given ρ = 0), plug the equilibrium strategies into (3) to obtain
            q  q         2         q                    q      
       1  L      σ2       σ2         F      σ2  F           L     σ2 L
     E 2 X0 1 + φ − φ µ + X0 + φ (X0 − µ) X0 + φ (X0 − µ)
                         q                    q            
                             σ2   L                 σ2   L
               − P0 + Λ 1     φ
                                (X0 − µ) + σZ1      φ
                                                       (X0 − µ) .

                                                                                       √ 
Opening up the expectation and simplifying, we can write the first line as 12 µ2 + (σ + φ)2 +
                             √
µ2 and second line as − σ(σ+2 φ) . Hence, each trader’s total expected payoff when ρ = 0 is

                                      1h 2        p i
                                        3µ + φ + σ φ .                                           (A.35)
                                      2

Following similar steps for the simultaneous case, we can write the equilibrium payoff of
player i (i = 1, 2) as
              q  q        2            q                    q     
     E 12 X0i 1 + σ2φ − σ2φ µ + 2 X0j + σ2φ (X0j − µ) X0i + σ2φ (X0i − µ)
                    2      2                     2                    2



                            q                    q            
                      S   S      σ2    i               σ2    i
                 − P0 + Λ 1      2φ
                                    (X0 − µ) + i      2φ
                                                          (X0 − µ) .

                                                                               √     
                                                               1       2     (σ+ 2φ)2
Opening up the expectation, the first line simplifies to       2
                                                                       µ   +    2
                                                                                        + µ2 , while the
                                 √
second line simplifies to − σ(σ+4 2φ) , for a total expected payoff of
                                                 √ 
                                     1    2      σ 2φ
                                        3µ + φ +      .                                          (A.36)
                                     2             2
                                                  √  √
Subtracting (A.36) from (A.35) yields 12       1 − 22 σ φ, which is strictly positive. Therefore,
the both players unambiguously prefer the sequential-move game when ρ = 0.
   The same comparison extends to |ρ| > 0 sufficiently small by continuity. Specifically,
Proposition A.4 and the results above establish existence and uniqueness for small |ρ|. For
such |ρ|, αL and αF in the sequential-move game are continuous in ρ at ρ = 0 by Corollary


                                                  54
A.1. After using (A.8), (A.9), and (A.11) to eliminate (βF , δF , δL ), and then (A.14) to
eliminate αF , the players’ payoffs can be written as continuous functions of (ρ, αL ) and are
therefore continuous in ρ at ρ = 0. For the simultaneous-move case, the equilibrium trading
coefficients are independent of ρ as shown earlier, and payoffs are clearly continuous in ρ. 42
Figure 4 illustrates.


References
Admati, A. R. and P. Pfleiderer (2009): “The “Wall Street Walk” and shareholder
 activism: Exit as a form of voice,” The Review of Financial Studies, 22, 2645–2685.
Ahnert, T., C. Machado, and A. Elisa Pereira (2020): “Trading for bailouts,” Tech.
 rep., Bank of Canada.
Albuquerque, R., V. Fos, and E. Schroth (2022): “Value creation in shareholder
 activism,” Journal of Financial Economics, 145, 153–178.
Appel, I. and V. Fos (2023): “Short Campaigns by Hedge Funds,” The Review of Finan-
 cial Studies, 1–34.
Artiga González, T. and P. Calluzzo (2019): “Clustered shareholder activism,” Cor-
 porate Governance: An International Review, 27, 210–225.
Asquith, P., P. A. Pathak, and J. R. Ritter (2005): “Short interest, institutional
 ownership, and stock returns,” Journal of Financial Economics, 78, 243–276.
Attari, M., S. Banerjee, and T. H. Noe (2006): “Crushed by a rational stampede:
 Strategic share dumping and shareholder insurrections,” Journal of Financial Economics,
 79, 181–222.
Back, K. (1992): “Insider trading in continuous time,” The Review of Financial Studies,
 5, 387–409.
Back, K., C. H. Cao, and G. A. Willard (2000): “Imperfect Competition among
 Informed Traders,” Journal of Finance, 55, 2117–2155.
Back, K., P. Collin-Dufresne, V. Fos, T. Li, and A. Ljungqvist (2018): “Ac-
 tivism, strategic trading, and liquidity,” Econometrica, 86, 1431–1463.
Bebchuk, L. A., A. Brav, R. J. Jackson Jr, and W. Jiang (2013): “Pre-disclosure
 accumulations by activist investors: Evidence and policy,” J. Corp. L., 39.
Becht, M., J. Franks, J. Grant, and H. F. Wagner (2017): “Returns to hedge fund
 activism: An international study,” The Review of Financial Studies, 30, 2933–2971.
  42
       Payoff expressions for general ρ are provided in the Mathematica file LeaderFollowerActivism.nb.




                                                    55
Bliss, B. A., P. Molk, and F. Partnoy (2019): “Negative activism,” Wash. UL Rev.,
 97, 1333.
Boleslavsky, R., D. L. Kelly, and C. R. Taylor (2017): “Selloffs, bailouts, and
 feedback: Can asset markets inform policy?” Journal of Economic Theory, 169, 294–343.
Bonatti, A. and G. Cisternas (2020): “Consumer scores and price discrimination,” The
 Review of Economic Studies, 87, 750–791.
Brav, A., A. Dasgupta, and R. Mathews (2021a): “Wolf pack activism,” Management
 Science.
Brav, A., W. Jiang, and H. Kim (2015): “The real effects of hedge fund activism:
 Productivity, asset allocation, and labor outcomes,” The Review of Financial Studies, 28,
 2723–2769.
Brav, A., W. Jiang, and R. Li (2021b): “Governance by persuasion: hedge fund activism
 and market-based shareholder influence,” European Corporate Governance Institute–
 Finance Working Paper.
Brav, A., W. Jiang, S. Ma, and X. Tian (2018): “How does hedge fund activism
 reshape corporate innovation?” Journal of Financial Economics, 130, 237–264.
Brav, A., W. Jiang, F. Partnoy, and R. Thomas (2008): “Hedge fund activism,
 corporate governance, and firm performance,” The Journal of Finance, 63, 1729–1775.
Brick, I. E., Y. Chen, J.-K. Kang, and J.-M. Kim (2024): “Does hedge fund managers’
 industry experience matter for hedge fund activism?” Financial Management.
Briggs, T. W. (2007): “Corporate Governance and the New Hedge Fund Activism: An
 Empirical Analysis,” Journal of Corporation Law, 32, 681.
Brunnermeier, M. K. (2005): “Information leakage and market efficiency,” The Review
 of Financial Studies, 18, 417–457.
Burkart, M., D. Gromb, and F. Panunzi (2000): “Agency conflicts in public and
 negotiated transfers of corporate control,” The Journal of Finance, 55, 647–677.
Burkart, M. and S. Lee (2022): “Activism and takeovers,” The Review of Financial
 Studies, 35, 1868–1896.
Caldentey, R. and E. Stacchetti (2010): “Insider trading with a random deadline,”
 Econometrica, 78, 245–283.
Cetemen, D. (2020): “Efficiency in Repeated Partnerships,” Tech. rep.
Cetemen, D., I. Hwang, and A. Kaya (2019): “Uncertainty-driven cooperation,” The-
 oretical Economics.
Chabakauri, G., V. Fos, and W. Jiang (2025): “Trading ahead of Barbarians’ arrival
 at the gate: insider trading on non-inside information,” Review of Finance.


                                           56
Chakraborty, A. and B. Yılmaz (2004): “Informed manipulation,” Journal of Eco-
 nomic theory, 114, 132–152.
Cisternas, G. (2018): “Two-sided learning and the ratchet principle,” The Review of
  Economic Studies, 85, 307–351.
Cisternas, G. and A. Kolb (2024): “Signalling with Private Monitoring,” Review of
  Economic Studies, rdae035.
Coffee Jr, J. C. and D. Palia (2016): “The wolf at the door: The impact of hedge
 fund activism on corporate governance,” Annals of Corporate Governance, 1, 1–94.
Collin-Dufresne, P. and V. Fos (2015): “Shareholder activism, informed trading, and
 stock prices,” Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper.
——— (2016): “Insider trading, stochastic liquidity, and equilibrium prices,” Econometrica,
 84, 1441–1475.
Corum, A. A. and D. Levit (2019): “Corporate control activism,” Journal of Financial
 Economics, 133, 1–17.
Di Maggio, M., F. Franzoni, A. Kermani, and C. Sommavilla (2019): “The rel-
 evance of broker networks for information diffusion in the stock market,” Journal of Fi-
 nancial Economics, 134, 419–446.
Diether, K. B., C. J. Malloy, and A. Scherbina (2002): “Differences of opinion and
 the cross section of stock returns,” The journal of finance, 57, 2113–2141.
Doidge, C., A. Dyck, and L. Yang (2021): “Collective Activism,” .
Edmans, A. (2009): “Blockholder trading, market efficiency, and managerial myopia,” The
 Journal of Finance, 64, 2481–2513.
Edmans, A. and C. G. Holderness (2017): “Blockholders: A survey of theory and
 evidence,” The handbook of the economics of corporate governance, 1, 541–636.
Edmans, A. and G. Manso (2011): “Governance through trading and intervention: A
 theory of multiple blockholders,” The Review of Financial Studies, 24, 2395–2428.
Ekmekci, M., L. Gorno, L. Maestri, J. Sun, and D. Wei (2020): “Learning from
 Manipulable Signals,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2007.08762.
Flugum, R., C. Lee, and M. E. Souther (2023): “Shining a light in a dark corner:
  Does EDGAR search activity reveal the strategically leaked plans of activist investors?”
  Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 58, 2820–2851.
Foster, F. D. and S. Viswanathan (1996): “Strategic trading when agents forecast the
 forecasts of others,” The Journal of Finance, 51, 1437–1478.
Gantchev, N. (2013): “The costs of shareholder activism: Evidence from a sequential
 decision model,” Journal of Financial Economics, 107, 610–631.


                                           57
Gantchev, N. and C. Jotikasthira (2018): “Institutional trading and hedge fund
 activism,” Management Science, 64, 2930–2950.
Ghetti, R. (2014): “Acting in Concert in EU Company Law:How Safe Harbours can Reduce
 Interferencewith the Exercise of Shareholder Rights,” European Company and Financial
 Law Review, 11, 594–632.
Goldstein, I. and A. Guembel (2008): “Manipulation and the allocational role of
 prices,” The Review of Economic Studies, 75, 133–164.
Hadlock, C. and M. Schwartz-Ziv (2019): “Blockholder heterogeneity, multiple blocks,
 and the dance between blockholders,” The Review of Financial Studies, 32, 4196–4227.
Holmström, B. (1999): “Managerial incentive problems: A dynamic perspective,” The
 review of Economic studies, 66, 169–182.
Kahn, C. and A. Winton (1998): “Ownership structure, speculation, and shareholder
 intervention,” The Journal of Finance, 53, 99–129.
Khanna, N. and R. Mathews (2012): “Doing battle with short sellers: The conflicted
 role of blockholders in bear raids,” Journal of financial economics, 106, 229–246.
Kyle, A. S. (1985): “Continuous auctions and insider trading,” Econometrica: Journal of
 the Econometric Society, 1315–1335.
——— (1989): “Informed speculation with imperfect competition,” The Review of Economic
 Studies, 56, 317–355.
Lewellen, J. and K. Lewellen (2022): “The ownership structure of US corporations,”
  Available at SSRN 4173466.
Li, T., P. Saffi, and D. Yang (2022): “Power Grab: Activists, Short Sellers, and
  Disagreement,” Columbia University working paper.
Maug, E. (1998): “Large shareholders as monitors: Is there a trade-off between liquidity
 and control?” The journal of finance, 53, 65–98.
Puckett, A. and X. Yan (2011): “The interim trading skills of institutional investors,”
 The Journal of Finance, 66, 601–633.
Shleifer, A. and R. W. Vishny (1986): “Large shareholders and corporate control,”
  Journal of political economy, 94, 461–488.
Uherka, D. and A. M. Sergott (1977): “On the continuous dependence of the roots of
 a polynomial on its coefficients,” The American mathematical monthly, 84, 368–370.
Williams, B. and A. Skrzypacz (2020): “Spoofing in Equilibrium,” Available at SSRN:
 374327.
Wong, Y. T. F. (2020): “Wolves at the door: A closer look at hedge fund activism,”
 Management Science, 66, 2347–2371.


                                          58
Yang, L. and H. Zhu (2021): “Strategic Trading When Central Bank Intervention Is
 Predictable,” The Review of Asset Pricing Studies, 11, 735–761.




                                      59
