=== PAGE 1 ===
NBER WORKING PAPER SERIES
DO PRICES REVEAL THE PRESENCE OF INFORMED TRADING?
Pierre Collin-Dufresne
Vyacheslav Fos
Working Paper 18452
http://www.nber.org/papers/w18452
NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH
1050 Massachusetts Avenue
Cambridge, MA 02138
October 2012
We thank Azi Ben-Rephael, Terry Hendershott, Gur Huberman,Wei Jiang, Norman Schuerhoff, and
seminar participants at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Copenhagen Business School,
Tsinghua University, IDC Summer Conference, and, especially, Yakov Amihud and Larry Glosten
for many helpful comments. We also thank Virginia Jiang, Xinran Li, Urvi Maru, Hana Na, Shan Qiao,
Sofiya Teplitskaya, and Tong Tong for excellent research assistance. The views expressed herein are
those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Bureau of Economic Research.
NBER working papers are circulated for discussion and comment purposes. They have not been peer-
reviewed or been subject to the review by the NBER Board of Directors that accompanies official
NBER publications.
© 2012 by Pierre Collin-Dufresne and Vyacheslav Fos. All rights reserved. Short sections of text,
not to exceed two paragraphs, may be quoted without explicit permission provided that full credit,
including © notice, is given to the source.

=== PAGE 2 ===
Do prices reveal the presence of informed trading?
Pierre Collin-Dufresne and Vyacheslav Fos
NBER Working Paper No. 18452
October 2012
JEL No. G0,G00,G1,G10,G12,G14,G3,G34
ABSTRACT
Using a comprehensive sample of trades by Schedule 13D filers, who possess valuable private information
when they accumulate stocks of targeted companies, this paper studies whether several liquidity measures
reveal the presence of informed trading. The evidence suggests that when Schedule 13D filers trade
aggressively, both high-frequency and low-frequency measures of stock liquidity indicate a higher
stock liquidity. Importantly, measures that have been used as direct proxies for adverse selection, such
the Kyle (1985) lambda, the Easley et al. (1996) pin measure, and the Amihud (2002) illiquidity measure,
suggest that the adverse selection is lower when informed trading takes place. The evidence is consistent
with informed traders being more aggressive when measured stock liquidity is high.
Pierre Collin-Dufresne
Graduate School of Business
Columbia University
Uris Hall 404
3022 Braodway
New York, NY 10027
and NBER
pc2415@columbia.edu
Vyacheslav Fos
College of Business
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
340 Wohlers Hall
1206 South Sixth Street
Champaign, IL, 61820
vfos@illinois.edu

=== PAGE 3 ===
Introduction
An extensive body of theory suggests that stock liquidity, as measured by the spread
between the bid and ask quotes and by the price impact of trades, should be informative
about the magnitude of asymmetric information between market participants (Copeland
and Galai, 1983; Glosten and Milgrom, 1985; Kyle, 1985; Easley and O’Hara, 1987;
Admati and Pﬂeiderer, 1988). For example, in his seminal contribution, Kyle (1985)
shows how an insider hides his private information and optimally accumulates shares at
a rate inversely proportional to his price impact, 3 Kyle’s lambda, which measures the
dollar change in price due to a dollar change in order ﬂow. In the cross-section stocks
with more informed trading relative to noise trading experience larger price impact.
Speciﬁcally, Kyle’s lambda, which can be estimated from a regression of price change on
order ﬂow, is higher for stocks with more informed trading (relative to liquidity trading).
Following that literature there have been many attempts to measure trading costs
empirically, and to decompose such costs into diﬀerent components such as a adverse
selection, order processing cost, and inventory cost (e.g., early papers include Glosten,
1987; Glosten and Harris, 1988; Stoll, 1989; Hasbrouck, 1991; Amihud, 2002). An
extensive empirical literature relies on adverse selection measures assuming they capture
information asymmetry (e.g., Barclay and Hendershott, 2004; Vega, 2006; Duarte et al.,
2008; Bharath et al., 2009; Kelly and Ljungqvist, 2011).
Do these empirical measures of stock liquidity actually capture information asym-
metry?
Most measures rely on some empirical estimate of price impact and its persistence to
identify the amount of private information in trades. There is an obvious endogeneity
issue with this approach. Ideally, one would want to separate informed from uninformed
trades ex-ante, and test their impact on price changes. Unfortunately, since we generally
3The insider’s optimal trading strategy is to trade as a linear function of the diﬀerence between his
signal and the current price, at a rate inversely proportional to his price impact, and that increases as
maturity approaches so that all the information eventually makes it into prices.
2

=== PAGE 4 ===
do not know the traders’ information sets, this is hard to do in practice. As a result,
it is often assumed that some types of investors are informed. For example, Boulatov
et al. (2009) use the institutional order ﬂow as a proxy for informed trading.
In this paper, we use a novel data set of trades by investors we can identify as having
substantial private information, to study whether proposed liquidity measures reveal the
presence of informed trading. Speciﬁcally, we exploit a disclosure requirement to identify
trades that rely on valuable private information. Rule 13d-1(a) of the 1934 Securities
Exchange Act requires investors to ﬁle with the SEC within 10 days of acquiring more
than 5% of any class of securities of a publicly traded company if they have an interest
in inﬂuencing the management of the company. In particular, Item 5(c) of Schedule 13D
requires the ﬁler to “... describe any transactions in the class of securities reported on
that were eﬀected during the past sixty days or since the most recent ﬁling of Schedule
13D, whichever is less.” Thus, Schedule 13D ﬁlings reveal the date and price at which
all trades by the Schedule 13D ﬁler were executed during the 60 days that precede the
ﬁling date.4
We hand collect a comprehensive sample of trades from the Schedule 13D ﬁlings. We
view this sample as an interesting laboratory to study the liquidity and the price impact
of informed trades. First, an average Schedule 13D ﬁling in our sample is characterized
by a positive and signiﬁcant market reaction upon announcement. For example, the
cumulative return in excess of the market is about 6% in the (t-10,t+1) window around
the ﬁling date and about 3% in the (t-1,t+1) window around the ﬁling date. Second, we
calculate several measures of proﬁts made by Schedule 13D ﬁlers and show that these
proﬁts are economically signiﬁcant. For example, an average Schedule 13D ﬁler gains
$1.13 million on a $30 million stake in a $404 million market cap company. Third, we
document performance of trading strategies that replicate trades of Schedule 13D ﬁlers.
The evidence suggests that these strategies exhibit positive and signiﬁcant alpha when
4As we explain in Section 2, our sample includes original Schedule 13D ﬁlings only, i.e., amendments
to previously submitted ﬁlings are excluded from the sample.
3

=== PAGE 5 ===
either one-, three-, or four-factor models are concerned. For example, a trading strategy
that replicates trades by Schedule 13D ﬁlers exhibits a 0.09% daily alpha in the four-
factor model. To summarize, the evidence implies that Schedule 13D ﬁlers’ information
is valuable. Therefore, we can classify the pre-announcement trades by Schedule 13D
ﬁlers as informed trades. It is also important to realize that, by its very nature, the
information held by Schedule 13D ﬁlers is likely to qualify as ‘private information.’ In
most cases, these activist share-holders know they can increase the value of the ﬁrm
they invest in by their own eﬀort. Their eﬀort level is, of course, conditional on their
achieving a large stake in the ﬁrm. It is their very actions and share-holdership that
constitutes the ‘private’ information in many cases.
Our main empirical result is that standard liquidity measures do not reveal the
presence of informed traders. Instead, we ﬁnd that standard liquidity measures suggest
that a stock is more liquid when there is signiﬁcant informed trading in that stock.
Speciﬁcally, we ﬁnd that all high-frequency measures of stock liquidity we consider are
lower on days on which Schedule 13D ﬁlers trade. For example, on an average day
when Schedule 13D ﬁlers trade, the measured price impact is almost 30% lower relative
to the sample average. Similarly to the high-frequency measures, the low-frequency
measures of stock liquidity suggest that liquidity is higher when Schedule 13D ﬁlers
trade. For example, Amihud’s illiquidity measure decreases by more than 45% on days
when Schedule 13D ﬁlers trade. Importantly, we show that days when Schedule 13D
ﬁlers trade are characterized by positive and signiﬁcant market-adjusted returns, which
suggests that informed trades do impact prices. Liquidity measures, however, fail to
detect that price impact.
Importantly, some of the liquidity measures we consider, such as the Kyle (1985)
lambda, the Easley et al. (1996) pin measure, and the Amihud (2002) illiquidity measure,
have been widely used in the literature as proxies for adverse selection. To summarize,
the evidence constitutes a serious challenge to the argument that standard measures
of stock price liquidity, and in particular of the adverse selection component, reveal
4

=== PAGE 6 ===
the presence of informed trading, at least not trading based on the long-lived type
of information that Schedule 13D ﬁlers hold. Perhaps these measures are better at
capturing short-lived information, for which selection issues (i.e., the optimal timing
of his trades by the informed agent) are less of an issue. Collin-Dufresne and Fos
(2012) present a theoretical model where, because of time-variation in abnormal volume
unrelated to the information possessed by the insider, in equilibrium, standard price
impact measures may be uninformative about his trading.
Consistent with this theoretical analysis, we show that Schedule 13D ﬁlers trade more
aggressively not only when the stock they are purchasing is more liquid, but also when
market-wide conditions change. For example, high aggregate volume and low market
return positively aﬀect the likelihood of a trade by Schedule 13D ﬁlers on a given day.
This paper is related to several strands of literatures.
First, this paper contributes to the empirical literature that relies on liquidity
measures as a proxy for information asymmetry (e.g, Barclay and Hendershott, 2004;
Vega, 2006; Duarte et al., 2008; Bharath et al., 2009; Kelly and Ljungqvist, 2011). Our
evidence suggests that empirical measures of information asymmetry might not reveal
the presence of informed traders. Therefore, empirical researchers should be cautious
when relying on a liquidity measure as a proxy for information asymmetry.
Second, our paper is related to the large literature on the estimation of the
asymmetric information component of transaction costs (e.g., Easley and O’Hara, 1987;
Glosten and Harris, 1988; Stoll, 1989; Hasbrouck, 1991; Lin et al., 1995). In contrast
to this literature, our paper does not rely on time-series properties of stock prices to
identify informed trades, but uses well-identiﬁed trades executed by informed traders to
study the impact of asymmetric information on stock price liquidity measures.
Third, our paper is related to the empirical literature that studies the impact of
informed trading on the stock liquidity. One strand of this literature studies the impact
of share repurchases on stock liquidity and ﬁnds mixed results (Barclay and Smith, 1988;
Singh et al., 1994; Franz et al., 1995; Miller and McConnell, 1995; Brockman and Chung,
5

=== PAGE 7 ===
2001; Ginglinger and Hamon, 2007). Another strand of this literature studies the impact
of insider trading on stock liquidity. 5 While some studies conclude that insider trading
impairs stock liquidity (Bettis et al., 2000; Cheng et al., 2006), others show that there
is no signiﬁcant eﬀect of insider trading on stock liquidity (Chung and Charoenwong,
1998; Charoenwong and Chung, 2000; Cao et al., 2004). Our papers diﬀers from this
literature in that it uses trades by investors we can identify as having signiﬁcant private
information, as traders make substantial proﬁts and their trades constitute a signiﬁcant
fraction of the stock’s daily volume. Instead, in the extant insider trading literature it
is often not clear that the trades are based on substantial private information. Share
repurchases, for example, can be motivated not only by private information, but also
by liquidity needs (excess cash leads to higher stock repurchases), investment policy
(deterioration in investment opportunities leads to higher payouts), and compensation
policy (repurchasing shares in anticipation of option expirations). In addition, (legal)
insider trading usually constitute only a very small fraction of the daily stock trading
activity.
One notable exception is the paper by Cornell and Sirri (1992), which our study
is closely related to. Cornell and Sirri (1992) present a clinical study of one case of
illegal insider trading during Anheuser-Busch’s 1982 tender oﬀer for Campbell Taggar,
for which they obtained ex-post court records to identify trades by corporate insiders
and their tippees. They ﬁnd that surprisingly liquidity increases when there is active
informed trading. Our ﬁndings are consistent with their case study, but uses a
comprehensive data-set of trades by legal ‘insiders.’
Fourth, in a recent paper, Obizhaeva (2011) provides evidence on selection bias
in liquidity estimates. Obizhaeva shows that liquidity is lower than what is usually
5Whether trades by corporate insiders contain valuable information is an empirical question. For
example, Lakonishok and Lee (2001) show that very little market movement is observed when insiders
trade and when they report their trades to the SEC. Recently, Cohen et al. (2012) decompose insider
trading into routine (i.e., uninformed) and opportunistic (i.e., informed) and show that only the
opportunistic trades yield positive abnormal return. However, even in that case the dollar proﬁts
realized by the insiders are trivial.
6

=== PAGE 8 ===
measured, especially in high volume markets, because traders employ price-dependent
strategies and often choose not to execute their orders entirely. Related, our results point
to another distinct selection bias in liquidity measures due to the endogenous timing of
the trading strategies of informed investors.
Finally, the paper contributes to the corporate governance literature by showing how
activist shareholders beneﬁt from liquid stock markets. Kyle and Vila (1991), Bolton and
von Thadden (1998), and Maug (1998) predict that greater liquidity trading facilitates
monitoring and shareholder activism. While recent empirical papers show that stock
liquidity facilitates hedge fund activism and proxy contests (Brav et al., 2008; Klein
and Zur, 2009; Fos, 2012), this paper provides direct evidence on the magnitude of
these proﬁts. Importantly, in this paper we show that trading strategies of activist
shareholders depend on stock liquidity. That is, we provide the micro-level data to
support the conjecture that higher stock liquidity beneﬁts activist shareholders who
actively intervene in corporate governance.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 1 provides an overview of the
institutional background. Section 2 describes the data. The magnitude of information
asymmetry is analyzed in Section 3. Section 4 describes liquidity measures used in
the analysis. Section 5 presents the main evidence on the eﬀect of informed trading
on liquidity measures. Section 6 documents the eﬀect of exogenous variation in stock
liquidity on trading strategies of Schedule 13D ﬁlers. Finally, Section 7 concludes.
1. Institutional Background
In this section we summarize the institutional background and describe what
information we exploit in empirical tests. Rule 13d-1(a) of the 1934 Securities Exchange
Act requires investors to ﬁle with the SEC within 10 days of acquiring more than 5% of
any class of securities of a publicly traded company if they have an interest in inﬂuencing
7

=== PAGE 9 ===
the management of the company. 6
Item 5(c) of Schedule 13D requires the ﬁler to “... describe any transactions in the
class of securities reported on that were eﬀected during the past sixty days or since the
most recent ﬁling of Schedule 13D, whichever is less.” Importantly, we restrict our sample
to original Schedule 13D ﬁlings only, i.e., amendments to previously submitted ﬁlings
are excluded from the sample (this maximizes the ‘asymmetric information’ content of
the trades by the insider). Thus, our Schedule 13D ﬁlings reveal the date and price
for all transactions by the Schedule 13D ﬁler that were executed during sixty days that
precede the ﬁling date. Figure 1 presents a typical time line of a Schedule 13 ﬁling.
[Insert Figure 1 here]
For each event we extract the following information from the Schedule 13D ﬁlings:
CUSIP of the underlying security, date of every transaction, transaction type (purchase
or sell), transaction size, and transaction price. In addition, we extract ﬁling date, event
date (date of crossing the 5% threshold), and the beneﬁcial ownership of the Schedule
13D ﬁler at the ﬁling date. In the vast majority of cases transaction data are reported at
daily frequency. If the transaction data are at higher-than-daily frequency, we aggregate
it to the daily level. Speciﬁcally, for every day we calculate the total change in stock
ownership and the average purchase price. The average price is the quantity-weighted
average of transaction prices.
6In general, an investor who has an interest in inﬂuencing the management of the company is required
to ﬁle Schedule 13D in the following cases: (i) an investor’s position exceeds the legal threshold of 5%,
(ii) a group of investors decides to act as a legal group and the ownership of the group exceeds the
legal threshold of 5%, and (iii) an investor’s previously established position changes by more than 1%
of stocks outstanding, either positive or negative. This study exploits cases (i) and (ii) only, since the
incentive to trade on private information is the strongest when an investor’s position exceeds the legal
threshold of 5%.
8

=== PAGE 10 ===
2. Sample Description
2.1. The Sample of Schedule 13D Filings with Information on Trades
The sample is constructed as follows. First, using an automatic search script, we
identify 9,580 Schedule 13D ﬁlings during 2001-2010. Next, we check the sample of
9,580 ﬁlings manually and identify events with information on trades. Since the trading
characteristics of ordinary equities might diﬀer from those of other assets, we retain
only assets whose CRSP share codes are 10 or 11, i.e., we discard certiﬁcates, ADRs,
shares of beneﬁcial interest, units, companies incorporated outside the U.S., Americus
Trust components, closed-end funds, preferred stocks, and REITs. We exclude stocks
whose prices are below $1 and above $1,000. Moreover, we exclude events that involve
derivatives, such as options, warrants, and swaps. Finally, we exclude Schedule 13D/A
ﬁlings (i.e., amendments to previously submitted ﬁlings) that are mistakenly classiﬁed
as original Schedule 13D ﬁlings.
The ﬁnal sample is the universe of all Schedule 13D ﬁlings that satisfy the above
criteria during 2001-2010 and consists of 1,725 events. Figure 2 presents the time
distribution of the Schedule 13D ﬁlings with information on trades in common stocks
during 2001-2010. During the sample period, on average 173 events take place each year.
[Insert Figure 2 here]
Next, we examine the trading strategy of Schedule 13D ﬁlers. The trading strategy
is described using the following three measures, which we describe in detail below: (1)
the probability that a Schedule 13D ﬁler trades at least one share on a given day, (2) the
percentage of outstanding shares traded by Schedule 13D ﬁlers, and (3) the probability
of trading with a Schedule 13D ﬁler. Each measure of the trading activity is calculated
at daily frequency. Figure 3 presents the cross-event average of each measure for the
sixty days prior to the ﬁling date, plotted as a function of the distance to the ﬁling day.
[Insert Figure 3 here]
9

=== PAGE 11 ===
For every distance to the ﬁling day, the probability that a Schedule 13D ﬁler trades
at least one share is the number of ﬁlings with a non-zero trade by the ﬁler divided
by the total number of Schedule 13D ﬁlings in the sample. Figure 3 indicates that
the probability that a Schedule 13D ﬁler trades at least one share on a given day is
approximately 30% and it reaches a 50% level closer to the ﬁling day.
To further understand the trading strategy of Schedule 13D ﬁlers, we calculate the
percentage of outstanding shares traded by Schedule 13D ﬁlers. For every distance to
the ﬁling day, the percentage of outstanding shares traded by Schedule 13D ﬁlers is the
ratio of the number of shares traded by the Schedule 13D ﬁler to the number of total
shares outstanding. Figure 3 suggests that a Schedule 13D ﬁler gradually increases the
percentage of outstanding shares purchased on every trading day. Closer to the ﬁling
day Schedule 13D ﬁlers trade more aggressively. For example, the average percentage of
outstanding shares purchased on every trading day by the Schedule 13D ﬁlers increases
from 0.03%-0.07% to 0.2%-0.3% closer to the ﬁling day.
Finally, we observe that the probability of trading with a Schedule 13D ﬁler co-
moves with the percentage of outstanding shares purchased by Schedule 13D ﬁlers. For
every distance to the ﬁling day, the probability of trading with Schedule 13D ﬁler is the
cross-event average of the number of shares traded by the ﬁler divided by the security’s
volume from CRSP. If no trade is reported on a given day by the ﬁler, the percentage
of outstanding shares traded by the ﬁler is set to zero. The probability of facing an
informed trader in a transaction increases dramatically from 5% to 10%-15% level when
approaching the ﬁling day.
Summary statistics of trading strategies adopted by Schedule 13D ﬁlers are reported
in Table 1. Columns (1) and (4) report summary statistics of all reported trades. The
average (median) stock ownership on the ﬁling date is 7.68% (6.20%). The average
(median) ﬁler purchases 3.8% (2.8%) of outstanding shares during sixty-day period prior
to the ﬁling date. It corresponds to an average (median) purchase of 1,304,126 (393,387)
shares at average (median) cost of $25.6 ($3.3) million. On days with non-zero informed
10

=== PAGE 12 ===
volume the ﬁler purchases 0.5% (0.2%) of outstanding shares.
[Insert Table 1 here]
The summary statistics of trades executed by Schedule 13D ﬁlers during the pre-event
days are reported in columns (2) and (4) and the summary statistics of trades during
the post-event days are reported in columns (3) and (6). The event day is the day when
the ﬁler’s ownership exceeds the 5% threshold. The evidence suggests that Schedule
13D ﬁlers trade more aggressively in the post-event period. For example, the average
(median) increase in the ownership per trading day with non-zero informed volume is
0.8% (0.3%) during the post-event period compared with 0.3% (0.1%) during the pre-
event period. Similarly, the average (median) percentage of trading days with informed
trades increase from 34.7% (29.4%) during the pre-event period to 57.1% (57.2%) during
the post-event period.
To summarize, the evidence suggests that (1) Schedule 13D ﬁlers do not trade every
day (but rather every two or three days), (2) when they trade, they trade a relatively
large fraction of the daily volume (around one quarter of the daily volume), (3) Schedule
13D ﬁlers trade more aggressively closer to the ﬁling date.
In our sample, 65% of companies are listed on the NASDAQ, 27% are listed on
the NYSE, and the remaining 8% are listed on the AMEX. Garﬁnkel and Nimalendran
(2003) suggest that there is a diﬀerence in the degree of anonymity between NASDAQ
and NYSE market structures. Speciﬁcally, they ﬁnd evidence that is consistent with less
anonymity on the NYSE specialist system compared to the NASDAQ dealer system.
Consistently with Garﬁnkel and Nimalendran (2003), we ﬁnd that Schedule 13D ﬁlers
trade more aggressively on the NASDAQ. For example, when Schedule 13D ﬁlers target
companies listed on the NASDAQ, the average trading strategy is shorter (15 trading
days on the NASDAQ vs. 17 trading days on the NYSE), ﬁlers purchase more shares
on every trading date (0.57% of outstanding shares on the NASDAQ vs. 0.30% of
outstanding shares on the NYSE), and end up with a larger block (7.61% on NASDAQ
vs. 7.00% on NYSE).
11

=== PAGE 13 ===
2.2. Case Study: Icahn Capital LP vs. Chesapeake Energy Corporation
To illustrate the informed trades that are the focus of this paper, we give a detailed
description of one speciﬁc case.
On May 25, 2012, Icahn Capital LP ﬁled a Schedule 13D indicating that it owned
7.56% of Chesapeake Energy Corporation (50,085,202 shares of common stock), which
operates in the Oil & Gas Operations industry. The ﬁler in a letter to the Chesapeake
board included in the Schedule 13D ﬁling, said that Icahn Capital LP planned to force
the break up of Chesapeake’s board and the installation of new directors nominated
by Icahn Capital LP and other leading shareholders. Therefore, the ﬁler explicitly
highlighted the possibility of active engagement in company’s corporate governance.
Figure 4 presents the percentage of outstanding shares owned by Icahn Capital LP
during the (fday− 36,fday ) period, where fday is the ﬁling day.7 The ﬁler’s ownership
prior to the sixty-day disclosure period was 0.11% of Chesapeake Energy (702,367 shares
of common stock). During the sixty-day period before the ﬁling date the ﬁler purchased
7.46% of Chesapeake Energy (49,382,835 shares of common stock). All these shares
where purchased during the (fday− 36,fday− 1) period. The ﬁler’s ownership crossed
the ﬁve-percent threshold on May 17, 2012 (the “event day”).
[Insert Figure 4 here]
The ﬁler disclosed that the 50,085,202 shares of common stock were purchased for
$785,300,000, i.e., $15.68 per share. The ﬁling reveals that the 702,367 shares purchased
prior to the sixty-day period were acquired at an average price of $14.54 per share while
the 49,382,835 shares that were purchased during the sixty-day period were acquired at
an average price of $15.70 per share. The average price of Chesapeake Energy shares
reached $17 per share level in the ten days after the ﬁling and remained at $17.52 per
share during the post-ﬁling month, suggesting that the ﬁler gained $1.82 on average per
7Since during the (t − 60,t− 37) period the ﬁler did not trade stocks of Chesapeake Energy, this
period is not plotted in this ﬁgure.
12

=== PAGE 14 ===
share purchased. This gain aggregates to $91,981,854. In the forty days after the ﬁling
the stock price reached $19.36 per share, raising Icahn Capital LP’s gain to $183,311,839.
The price of Chesapeake Energy shares increased by 4.95% during the ﬁling day
(May 25, 2012) and the following trading day (May 29, 2012). Therefore, the market’s
perception of the value created by Icahn Capital LP was clearly positive.
Consistent with the evidence in Table 1, Figure 4 suggests that Icahn Capital LP
did not trade on every trading day during the sixty-day pre-ﬁling period. Speciﬁcally,
the ﬁler traded on eighteen trading days during the sixty-day period. Interestingly, the
ﬁler traded when stock liquidity was high. For example, during the sixty-day period,
the average level of the Amihud (2002) illiquidity measure during days with trades by
Icahn Capital LP was 38% lower than during days with no trades by Icahn Capital LP.8
3. Are Schedule 13D ﬁlers informed?
At the core of this study is the following assumption: Schedule 13D ﬁlers
possess valuable information on the underlying securities when they trade in the pre-
announcement period. We use three approaches to assess the extent of the ﬁler’s private
information. First, we use short-term announcement event-day returns upon Schedule
13D ﬁling. The short-term announcement event-day returns summarize the market’s
perception of the value created by Schedule 13D ﬁlers. Second, we use proﬁts made
by Schedule 13D ﬁlers on purchasing stocks at the pre-announcement prices. Finally,
we evaluate the performance of trading strategies that replicate trades of Schedule 13D
ﬁlers.
Note that Schedule 13D ﬁlers trade on long-lived information that, by its very nature,
is not likely to be available to other market participants. In most cases, it is their own
future actions, such as shareholder activism, that will increase the value of the ﬁrm. Of
course, this depends closely on their decision, and ability, to take a sizable stake in the
8Amihud (2002) illiquidity measure is the ratio of absolute value of daily stock return to the dollar
trading volume, multiplied by 1000.
13

=== PAGE 15 ===
ﬁrm. In some sense, it is their very trading that constitutes the private information.
Only when they reach the 5% threshold, does the information, due to the disclosure
requirement, become public. We can measure the extent to which the market believes
their future action have value by looking at announcement returns. This also allows us
to measure the private information content of their trades.
3.1. Announcement Returns
Figure 5 plots the average buy-and-hold return, in excess of the buy-and-hold return
on the value-weighed NYSE/AMEX/NASDAQ index from CRSP, from sixty days prior
to the ﬁling date to forty days afterward. Panel A includes data from the 2001-2010
sample period. There is a run-up of about 7% between sixty days to one day prior to
the ﬁling day. The two-day jump in excess return observed at the ﬁling date is around
3%. After that the excess return remains positive and so that the post-ﬁling ‘drift’
cumulates to a total of 13%. 9 Thus, the short-term announcement event-day returns
suggest that Schedule 13D ﬁlers indeed possess valuable private information during the
pre-announcement period.
[Insert Figure 5 here]
By studying the abnormal returns around the ﬁling day we implicitly assume that
Schedule 13D ﬁlings become public when ﬁled with the SEC. While the 3% two-day
jump in excess return observed at the ﬁling date is consistent with this assumption, to
further validate it we checked a representative sample of events ‘by hand’ and found
that most of the Schedule 13D ﬁlings become public within one day after ﬁling with the
SEC. There are, however, some exceptions in the early part of the sample when ﬁlings
9The evidence is consistent with Brav et al. (2008) and Klein and Zur (2009), who report signiﬁcant
positive stock reaction to announcement of hedge fund activism, where the announcement is triggered
by Schedule 13D ﬁlings. There are two main diﬀerences between our samples. First, we consider all
Schedule 13D ﬁlings while Brav et al. (2008) and Klein and Zur (2009) consider only ﬁlings by hedge
funds. Second, a Schedule 13D ﬁling is required to have information on trades in order to be included in
our sample. That is, we restrict our sample to cases in which the Schedule 13D ﬁler actively accumulate
shares and crosses the 5% threshold.
14

=== PAGE 16 ===
became public with a short delay. Such delays might explain the post-ﬁling drift in
returns which is evident in Panel A of Figure 5. To further investigate this, we replicate
Panel A while restricting the sample period to 2003-2010. The results are reported in
Panel B of Figure 5. It shows that the post-ﬁling drift in returns does not exist in the
later part of the sample. Speciﬁcally, there is no trend in the abnormal return after
the ﬁling date. Therefore, the overall evidence suggests that market participants learn
almost immediately about Schedule 13D ﬁlings in recent years, and also incorporate the
resulting information about the stock price fairly eﬃciently into prices.
3.2. Proﬁts
We calculate three measures of proﬁts. First, we calculate Schedule 13D ﬁlers’ proﬁts
from purchasing shares at the pre-announcement prices:
Trading Profit = q′(ppost− p), (1)
where q is the vector of trades (purchases are positive and sales are negative) during the
sixty-day period,ppost is the post-announcement price, and p is the vector of transaction
prices. The post-announcement price is the average stock price during the week that
follows the Schedule 13D ﬁling.
If Schedule 13D ﬁlers indeed own valuable private information, they would be
expected to purchase shares at a discount relative to the post-announcement price. Of
course, by purchasing securities schedule 13D ﬁlers may also push up prices. Thus their
cumulative proﬁts also depend on the price impact of their trades. If price impact is
large, then we expect realized proﬁts of insiders to be lower than if price impact is low.
Thus the trading proﬁts of Schedule 13D ﬁlers depend both on the value of their private
information and on the stock price liquidity.
Second, we calculate the total proﬁt realized by informed investors:
Total Profit =Trading Profit + (ppost−p0)w0, (2)
15

=== PAGE 17 ===
where p0 is the price of the ﬁrst transaction and w0 is the initial ownership, which is
established before the sixty-day period. This measure assumes that a Schedule 13D ﬁler
purchases the initial stake at the price of the ﬁrst transaction. As our case study on
“Icahn vs. Cheasapeake” suggests, this assumption is most likely to cause a downward
bias in estimated total proﬁts.
Finally, we report the total value created for the shareholders of a company that
experience a Schedule 13D ﬁling:
Value Created = (ppost−p0)SHOUT, (3)
where SHOUT is the number of shares outstanding.
[Insert Table 2 here]
Table 2 presents the distribution of trading proﬁts. We split the sample into ﬁve
market cap quantiles and report mean and median proﬁt measures for every quantile.
The evidence suggests that informed traders proﬁt signiﬁcantly from trading. For
example, a Schedule 13D ﬁler who acquires a $30 million stake in a $404 million market
cap company (i.e., 7.42% stake, which is an average stake in our sample) expects to
beneﬁt $1.13 million. This can be further broken down into a $0.60 million proﬁt on
trades during the sixty-day period and a $0.53 million proﬁt on the initial ownership,
purchased prior to the sixty-day window.
The evidence also suggests that the main beneﬁciaries are shareholders who own
shares on the announcement date. For example, shareholders of companies in the ﬁfth
market cap quantile gain $46.2 million during an average event whereas the Schedule
13D ﬁler gains $3.0 million. Therefore, while Schedule 13D ﬁlers beneﬁt from uninformed
traders who sell their shares during the pre-announcement period, they create signiﬁcant
value for all other shareholders by deciding to ﬁle Schedule 13D and to intervene in a
company’s governance.
16

=== PAGE 18 ===
3.3. Trading Strategies
Next we evaluate the performance of trading strategies that exploit the information
from Schedule 13D ﬁlings. Note that some of these strategies are not implementable
based only on public information and without the knowledge of the insider’s information
or trading. The results are nevertheless interesting to measure the quality of (and returns
to) private information. Table 3 reports estimates of one-, three-, and four-factor models,
where the left-hand-side variable is a daily return on the portfolio of Schedule 13D stocks.
[Insert Table 3 here]
Panel A reports the performance of an equal-weighted portfolio return, constructed
as follows. For every trading day, we calculate the equal-weighted average of returns
on stocks held by Schedule 13D ﬁlers. We report results for three investment horizons:
from 90 days before ﬁling to 30 days after ﬁling, from 60 days before ﬁling to 30 days
after ﬁling, and from 30 days before ﬁling to 30 days after ﬁling. The evidence in Panel
A suggests that all portfolios exhibit positive and signiﬁcant daily alphas, varying from
0.13% to 0.21%.
Panel B reports the performance of a value-weighted portfolio return, constructed
as follows. For every trading day, we calculate the dollar investment of Schedule 13D
ﬁlers in every stock. Then we calculate the average return on these stocks for every
trading date, where the weights are proportional to the dollar investment in each stock.
We assume that Schedule 13D ﬁlers do not change their position until 30 days after
the ﬁling date. The evidence suggests that this portfolio exhibits economically and
statistically signiﬁcant positive alpha. For example, the four-factor model daily alpha is
0.09% with 3.04 t-statistic.
The evidence suggests that the informational advantage of Schedule 13D ﬁlers is
substantial, and that taken together a strategy that could replicate their investments
would be extraordinarily successful at generating ‘alpha,’ i.e., outperforming signiﬁcantly
the benchmark return predicted by standard linear asset-pricing factor models.
17

=== PAGE 19 ===
4. Liquidity Measures
We use four measures of stock liquidity that rely on high-frequency data: the Kyle
lambda, the eﬀective spread, the realized spread, and price impact. Kyle’s lambda is a
measure of price impact, which can be interpreted as the cost of demanding a certain
amount of liquidity over some given time period. In constructing this measure, we follow
Hasbrouck (2009) and Goyenko et al. (2009) and calculate the price impact as the slope
coeﬃcient λit in the regression:
retitn =δit +λitSitn +εitn, (4)
where for the nth ﬁve-minute period on date t and stocki,retitn is the stock return and
Sitn is the sum of signed square-root dollar volume, that is, ∑
ksign(dvolitnk)
√
|dvolitnk|.
The trades are signed according to the Lee and Ready (1991) algorithm.
The eﬀective spread is the diﬀerence between the natural logarithm of the actual
transaction price and the natural logarithm of the midpoint prevailing at the time of
the trade:
espreaditk = 2|ln(Pitk)−ln(Mitk)|, (5)
wherePitk is the price of thekth trade andMitk is the midpoint of the consolidated BBO
prevailing at the time of the kth trade (Hasbrouck, 2010). 10 Aggregating over day t, a
stock’s eﬀective spread espreadit is the dollar-volume-weighted average of the eﬀective
spreadespreaditk computed over all trades on day t. The wider the eﬀective spread, the
less liquid is the stock.
The realized spread is the temporary component of the eﬀective spread. It measures
the revenue to liquidity providers assuming that the liquidity provider is able to close
her position at the midpoint prevailing ﬁve minutes after the trade. For a given stock i
10We exclude NBBO crossed and locked observations from the analysis (Holden and Jacobsen, 2011).
18

=== PAGE 20 ===
and day t, the realized spread on the kth trade is deﬁned as:
rspreaditk = 2qitk(ln(Pitk)−ln(Mitk+5)), (6)
where Mitk+5 is the midpoint of the consolidated BBO prevailing ﬁve-minutes after the
kth trade and qitk is the buy–sell indicator (+1 for buys, –1 for sells). Aggregating over
day t, a stock’s realized spread rspreadit is the dollar-volume-weighted average of the
realized spread rspreaditk computed over all trades on day t.
The ﬁve-minute price impact is the permanent component of the eﬀective spread.
It measures gross losses to liquidity demanders due to adverse selection (Glosten and
Harris, 1988). For a given stock i and day t, the ﬁve-minute price impact of the kth
trade is deﬁned as:
pimpactitk = 2qitk(ln(Mitk+5)−ln(Mitk)), (7)
Aggregating over day t, a stock’s price impact pimpactit is the dollar-volume-weighted
average of price impact pimpactitk computed over all trades on day t.
In addition, we use seven low-frequency measures of stock liquidity: the Amihud
illiquidity, the Amivest liquidity, the daily bid-ask spread, an indicator of a day with
zero return (“zero ”), an indicator of a positive-volume day with zero return (“ zero2”),
the Pastor and Stambaugh (2003) reversal measure, and the probability of informed
trade (“pin”) introduced by Easley et al. (1996). 11
Amihud’s illiquidity measure illiquidity it is deﬁned as:
illiquidity it = 1000 |rit|
volumeit
, (8)
11The indicators are closely related to the proportion of days with zero-returns and the proportion
positive-volume days with zero returns deﬁned in Lesmond et al. (1999). Averaging an indicator over
a period of time (e.g., month) will produce the corresponding proportion of days.
19

=== PAGE 21 ===
where rit is the stock i return on day t and volumeit is stock i dollar volume on day t.
A smaller value of illiquidity implies a lower price impact, and therefore a higher stock
liquidity.
The Amivest liquidity measure liquidityit is deﬁned as:
liquidityit = 0.001volumeit
|rit| . (9)
A larger value of liquidity implies a lower price impact.
The bid-ask spread basperadit of stock i on day t is deﬁned as:
baspreadit = askit−bidit
0.5(askit +bidit), (10)
where askit and bidit are daily closing ask and bid from CRSP. A smaller value of
baspread implies a higher stock liquidity.
The Pastor and Stambaugh (2003) reversal measure for stock i in period t (e.g.,
month) is the ordinary least squares estimate of γi,t in the regression
re
i,d+1,t =θi,t +φi,tri,d,t +γi,tsign(re
i,d,t)υi,d,t +ϵi,d,t,d = 1,...,D, (11)
where quantities are deﬁned as follows: ri,d,t is the return on stock i on day d in period
t; re
i,d,t = ri,d,t−rm,d,t, where rm,d,t is the return on the CRSP value-weighted market
return on day d in period t; υi,d,t is the dollar volume for stock i on day d in period t.12
A negative γ indicates the presence of reversal. A higher absolute value of γ implies
greater expected reversal and therefore lower stock liquidity.
The Easley et al. (1996) pin measure is:
pin = αµ
αµ + 2ε, (12)
12We follow Pastor and Stambaugh (2003) in imposing restrictions on the estimation procedure.
20

=== PAGE 22 ===
whereα is the probability of an information event,µ is the arrival rate of of traders who
know the new information if it exists, and ε is the arrival rate of uninformed traders.
Maximum likelihood estimators of these parameters are described in Easley et al. (1996),
pages 1412-1414. A higher value of pin implies a higher probability of informed trade.
Table 4 provides summary descriptive statistics of the stock liquidity measures. Panel
A describes high-frequency stock liquidity measures and Panel B describes low-frequency
stock liquidity measures.
[Insert Table 4 here]
5. Results
The evidence reported in Section 3 suggests that Schedule 13D ﬁlers indeed possess
valuable private information and beneﬁt from trading with uniformed traders. Thus, we
can conﬁdently argue that there is a substantial amount of asymmetric information
in Schedule 13D trades. Therefore, it is an ideal environment for testing whether
liquidity measures indicate the increase in the information asymmetry between market
participants. In this section we test whether liquidity measures, described in Section 4,
indicate the presence of informed trading.
5.1. Price Impact of Informed Trades
We begin the analysis by showing that trades by Schedule 13D ﬁlers aﬀect prices.
First, note from ﬁgure 5 that stock prices increase closer to the ﬁling date. Moreover,
Figure 3 shows that Schedule 13D ﬁlers trade more aggressively closer to the ﬁling date.
This suggests that trades by Schedule 13D ﬁlers aﬀect prices and speciﬁcally, that when
Schedule 13D ﬁlers buy stocks, their prices appreciate and get closer to the post-ﬁling
date level.
Second, we compare the market-adjusted returns and the daily turnover during the
sixty-day disclosure period and the sixty-day period during previous year. Panel A in
Table 5 suggests that the market-adjusted returns and the daily turnover are higher
21

=== PAGE 23 ===
during the sixty-day disclosure period. The changes are not only statistically but also
economically signiﬁcant. For example, the market adjusted return increases from 0.02%
to 0.11%.
[Insert Table 5 here]
Third, Panel B in Table 5 suggests that market-adjusted returns and daily turnover
are higher on days when Schedule 13D ﬁlers trade. For example, the average market-
adjusted return is 0.62% on days when Schedule 13D ﬁlers trade and -0.04% on days
when Schedule 13-D ﬁler do not trade. Thus, the adverse selection is worse on days
when Schedule 13D ﬁlers trade.
Finally, we adopt the regression methodology and estimate the following regression:
yit =α +γitrade it +ϵit, (13)
whereyit is either market-adjusted return or daily turnover for company i on day t and
itradeit is an indicator that is +1 on a day with trades by Schedule 13D ﬁlers and zero
else. Table 6 reports the results.
[Insert Table 6 here]
Similarly to evidence in Table 5, Table 6 suggests that market-adjusted returns and
daily turnover are higher on days when Schedule 13D ﬁlers trade. The results are robust
to augmenting the regression with event ﬁxed eﬀects and restricting the sample to the
sixty-day disclosure period only.
Overall, the evidence indicates that when Schedule 13D ﬁlers trade they move prices
up. In addition, days with trades by Schedule 13D ﬁlers are characterized by high daily
turnover. Next we study whether liquidity measures reveal the presence of informed
trading.
22

=== PAGE 24 ===
5.2. Do Liquidity Measure Reveal the Presence of Informed Trading?
We begin the analysis by plotting the two arguably most popular (il)liquidity
measures around the ﬁling date: the Kyle (1985) lambda and the Amihud (2002)
illiquidity measure. Figure 6 shows that both lambda and the Amihud (2002) illiquidity
measure achieve local minima around the ﬁling date. That is, it is exactly when the
informed traders are most active and aﬀect prices, these measures indicate low adverse
selection.
[Insert Figure 6 here]
Next, we consider the sixty-day disclosure period and test whether liquidity measures
during this period diﬀer from liquidity measures during the same calendar window in
the year prior to that when the Schedule 13D is ﬁled. Table 7 presents the results. The
evidence suggests that none of the liquidity measures indicate the presence of informed
traders during the sixty-day disclosure period. Instead, three high-frequency measures
(λ, espread, and rspread) and ﬁve low-frequency measures ( illiquidity, liquidity,
baspread, pin, andzero2) indicate higher stock liquidity. For example, pin is more than
10% lower during the sixty-day disclosure period.13 Pastor and Stambaugh (2003) return
reversal measure,psgamma, is the only measure that indicates lower stock liquidity (i.e.,
stronger return reversal), but the diﬀerence is not statistically signiﬁcant.
Importantly, while some liquidity measure are aﬀected not only by adverse selection
(e.g., baspread may also be a function of inventory costs), λ and pin are usually
associated speciﬁcally with the adverse selection component. Therefore, the evidence
presented in Table 7 constitutes a major challenge to the argument that these liquidity
measures detect informed trades.
[Insert Table 7 here]
13Related to our results, evidence in Aktas et al. (2007) suggests that pin is lower before merger and
acquisition announcements.
23

=== PAGE 25 ===
The evidence in Section 2 suggests that Schedule 13D ﬁlers trade on average only
on 15 days during the sixty-day disclosure period. Motivated by this evidence, we next
test how liquidity measures behave on days when Schedule 13D ﬁlers trade compared
to days where they do not trade, during the disclosure period. Table 8 presents the
results.14 The evidence suggests that all liquidity measures except zero (which is not
statistically signiﬁcantly diﬀerent on both types of days) indicate higher stock liquidity
on days with trades by Schedule 13D ﬁlers. For example, the average λ is 12.35 on days
with informed trades and 16.85 on days with no informed trades. That is, it is almost
30% lower on days with informed trades. 15
[Insert Table 8 here]
Next, we adopt the regression methodology and estimate the following regression:
liqit =α +γitrade it +ϵit, (14)
where liqit is a measure of liquidity for company i on day t and itradeit is an indicator
that is +1 on a day with trades by Schedule 13D ﬁlers and zero else. 16
Panel A in Table 9 reports the results. First note the constant in this speciﬁcation
has a simple interpretation: it measures the average level of a liquidity measure during
the sample period, which is (fday− 120,fday + 40) around the ﬁling day. For example,
the average eﬀective spread is 112 basis points. The coeﬃcient of itrade indicates how
14This approach does not allow us to study two liquidity measures that have played a signiﬁcant role
in the literature: the Pastor and Stambaugh (2003) gamma and Easley et al. (1996) pin measure. This
is because the estimation of these two measures requires a time series of a certain length, and cannot
be performed on adjacent days. For example, it is typically suggested to estimate the pin measure over
at least a one month horizon.
15Motivated by the more aggressive trading strategy of Schedule 13D ﬁlers in the post-event period, we
test how liquidity measures behave on post-event trading days when Schedule 13D ﬁlers trade compared
to days where they do not trade, during the disclosure period. Untabulated evidence is very similar to
evidence from Table 8, suggesting that all liquidity measures except zero and rspread (which are not
statistically signiﬁcantly diﬀerent on both types of days) indicate higher stock liquidity on days with
trades by Schedule 13D ﬁlers during the post-event period.
16Hendershott et al. (2011) use similar speciﬁcation to study the eﬀect of algorithmic trading on
liquidity.
24

=== PAGE 26 ===
diﬀerent a measure of liquidity is on days with trades by Schedule 13D ﬁlers. The
estimates suggest a higher stock liquidity on days with trades by Schedule 13D ﬁlers.
All results are highly economically and statistically signiﬁcant. For example, the price
impact decreases by 12 basis points from 62 to 50 basis points, which is a 19% reduction.
None of the liquidity measures, including those that have often being used to proxy for
adverse selection, indicate the presence of informed trades.
[Insert Table 9 here]
Next we estimate an augmented version of equation (14), which accommodates event
ﬁxed eﬀects:
liqit =α +γitrade it +ηi +ϵit, (15)
whereηi are event ﬁxed eﬀects. Panel B reports the results. The evidence suggests that
even after including event ﬁxed eﬀects, the main conclusion does not change: liquidity
measures do no indicate the presence of informed trades. Instead, stocks appear more
liquid when schedule 13D ﬁlers trade. For example, the Amihud (2002) illiquidity
measure decreases by more than 25% (from 0.3389 to 0.2442). Since all cross-sectional
variation in liquidity measures is captured by the event ﬁxed eﬀects, we can conclude
that stocks appear more liquid when Schedule 13D ﬁlers trade.
In a robustness check we restricted the sample to the (fday− 60,fday ) period. The
idea of this exercise it to verify that results are not driven by changes in liquidity in the
post-ﬁling period. The evidence in Panel C suggests that results are almost unaﬀected
by changing the sample period. 17
To summarize, the evidence constitutes a major challenge to the idea that empirical
measures of stock price liquidity, and, in particular, of adverse selection, reveal the
17Untabulated robustness check suggests that the coeﬃcient ofitrade in equation (15) does not change
signiﬁcantly when the ten-day period before the ﬁling date is concerned. Speciﬁcally, we estimate the
following speciﬁcation: liqit =α+γ1itradeit∗tendayit +γ2itradeit +γ3tendayit +ηi +ϵit, wheretenday
indicates the ten-day period before the ﬁling date. The evidence suggests that γ1 is insigniﬁcant for all
liquidity measures, except rspread. When rspread is concerned, γ1 is positive and signiﬁcant at 10%
level while the sum of γ1 and γ2 is negative and statistically insigniﬁcant.
25

=== PAGE 27 ===
presence of informed trading. Instead, we ﬁnd that measures of stock liquidity appear
better (i.e., measured adverse selection is smaller) when informed investors trade more
aggressively. Importantly, the results are similar when either high- or low-frequency
measures of stock liquidity are considered.
6. Aggregate Return and Liquidity
To shed more light on the selection mechanism that drives the results, we study
the eﬀect of exogenous variation in stock liquidity on trading strategies of Schedule
13D ﬁlers.18 Collin-Dufresne and Fos (2012) present at theoretical model where insiders
trade more aggressively when uninformed order-ﬂow volatility is high. The authors ﬁnd
that when uninformed order-ﬂow volatility is allowed to vary stochastically over time in
Kyle’s model, then the sign of the correlation between measures of price impact, such
as Kyle’s lambda, and the amount of informed trading is undetermined. In fact, if noise
trader volatility is predictable, then the correlation can become negative, as trading
(i.e., slippage) costs to uninformed investors are lower in high abnormal volume states,
which is precisely when informed investors choose to trade more (and therefore more
private information is incorporated into prices). Consistently with this intuition, Figure
7 suggests that Schedule 13D ﬁlers trade more aggressively when uninformed trading
activity is high. 19
[Insert Figure 7 here]
We next show how variation in market-wide conditions, such aggregate volume and
market return, aﬀects the trading strategies of Schedule 13D ﬁlers. Speciﬁcally, we
18Note that our regression regression results above say nothing about causality. It could be that
insiders select to trade when stocks happen to be more liquid. Or it could be that stocks appear more
liquid because insiders trade more and somehow aﬀect stock liquidity. The latter is, in a way, the
argument put forth by Cornell and Sirri (1992) who argue that there are ‘falsely informed’ noise traders
who are attracted by informed trading and therefore oﬀer better liquidity to the insiders (see page
1054). Below we oﬀer some support that, if at all correct, this is not the whole story, since insiders do
seem to condition on market wide liquidity, which is unlikely to be caused by their own trading.
19We separate to total trading volume for every trading day into two components: informed (initiated
by Schedule 13D ﬁlers) and uninformed (not initiated by Schedule 13D ﬁlers).
26

=== PAGE 28 ===
estimate the following regression:
itradeit =α +γ1pdvolt +γ2mktrft +γ3liqit +ϵit, (16)
wherepdvol is the percentage deviation of CRSP volume from its previous year average
andmktrf is the value-weight market return in excess of the risk-free rate. The analysis
is based on daily observations from 60 days before the ﬁling day to the ﬁling day.
Panel A in Table 10 reports the results. The evidence suggests that Schedule 13D
ﬁlers are more likely to trade when aggregate market activity is high (high CRSP
volume), when the market performs poorly (low market return), and when measured
liquidity is high. For robustness, we augment equation (16) with event ﬁxed eﬀects,
which control for any event-speciﬁc unobservables. Panel B reports estimates and
suggests that the results are not driven by unobservable event-speciﬁc factors.
[Insert Table 10 here]
7. Conclusion
In this paper we exploit a hand-collected data set on stock transactions by Schedule
13D ﬁlers. We ﬁnd substantial evidence that trades by Schedule 13D ﬁlers contain
valuable information: both announcement returns and proﬁts realized by the ﬁlers are
substantial. Moveover, we show that when Schedule 13D ﬁlers trade, prices do move
up. We therefore feel warranted classifying pre-ﬁling trades by Schedule 13D ﬁlers as
informed trades.
The data set allows us to test whether stock price liquidity measures, proposed in the
literature, reveal the presence of informed traders. The evidence suggests that neither
high-frequency nor low-frequency measures of stock liquidity indicate the presence of
informed traders. Instead, stocks exhibit higher stock liquidity when informed market
participants trade, and even more so when they trade more aggressively. Importantly,
measures that have been used as direct proxies for adverse selection, suggest that the
27

=== PAGE 29 ===
adverse selection is lower when informed trading takes place. The evidence is consistent
with informed traders being more aggressive in regimes with higher stock ‘liquidity.’
The main implication of the paper is that we cannot use standard liquidity measures
as proxies for information asymmetry. The main problem seems to be that these
measures are not robust to the informed trader’s ability to select when and how much
to trade. We show that along with liquidity measures, Schedule 13D ﬁlers use market
volume and market return to condition their timing and size of trades.
28

=== PAGE 30 ===
References
Admati, A., Pﬂeiderer, P., 1988. A theory of intraday patterns: Volume and price
variability. The Review of Financial Studies 1 (1), 3–40.
Aktas, N., de Bodt, E., Declerck, F., Van Oppens, H., 2007. The PIN anomaly around
M&A announcements. Journal of Financial Markets 10 (2), 169–191.
Amihud, Y., January 2002. Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series
eﬀects. Journal of Financial Markets 5 (1), 31–56.
Barclay, M., Hendershott, T., 2004. Liquidity externalities and adverse selection:
Evidence from trading after hours. The Journal of Finance 59 (2), 681–710.
Barclay, M., Smith, C., 1988. Corporate payout policy: Cash dividends versus open-
market repurchases. Journal of Financial Economics 22 (1), 61 – 82.
Bettis, J., Coles, J., Lemmon, M., 2000. Corporate policies restricting trading by insiders.
Journal of Financial Economics 57 (2), 191 – 220.
Bharath, S. T., Pasquariello, P., Wu, G., 2009. Does asymmetric information drive
capital structure decisions? Review of Financial Studies 22 (8), 3211–3243.
Bolton, P., von Thadden, E.-L., February 1998. Blocks, liquidity, and corporate control.
The Journal of Finance 53 (1), 1–25.
Boulatov, A., Hendershott, T., Livdan, D., October 2009. Informed trading and portfolio
returns, working paper.
Brav, A., Jiang, W., Partnoy, F., Thomas, R., August 2008. Hedge fund activism,
corporate governance, and ﬁrm performance. The Journal of Finance 63 (4), 1729–
1775.
Brockman, P., Chung, D., 2001. Managerial timing and corporate liquidity:: evidence
from actual share repurchases. Journal of Financial Economics 61 (3), 417 – 448.
29

=== PAGE 31 ===
Cao, C., Field, L., Hanka, G., 2004. Does insider trading impair market liquidity?
Evidence from IPO lockup expirations. The Journal of Financial and Quantitative
Analysis 39 (1), 25–46.
Charoenwong, C., Chung, K., 2000. An empirical analysis of quoted depths of nyse and
amex stocks. Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting 14, 85–102.
Cheng, L., Firth, M., Leung, T., Rui, O., 2006. The eﬀects of insider trading on liquidity.
Paciﬁc-Basin Finance Journal 14 (5), 467 – 483.
Chung, K., Charoenwong, C., 1998. Insider trading and the bid-ask spread. Financial
Review 33 (3), 1–20.
Cohen, L., Malloy, C., Pomorski, L., 2012. Decoding inside information. The Journal of
Finance Forthcomming.
Collin-Dufresne, P., Fos, V., March 2012. Insider trading, stochastic liquidity, and
equilibrium prices, working paper.
Copeland, T., Galai, D., 1983. A simple implicit measure of the eﬀective bid-ask spread
in an eﬃcient market. The Journal of Finance 38 (5), 1457–1469.
Cornell, B., Sirri, E., 1992. The reaction of investors and stock prices to insider trading.
The Journal of Finance 47 (3), 1031–1059.
Duarte, J., Han, X., Harford, J., Young, L., 2008. Information asymmetry, information
dissemination and the eﬀect of regulation fd on the cost of capital. Journal of Financial
Economics 87 (1), 24–44.
Easley, D., Kiefer, N. M., O’Hara, M., Paperman, J. B., 1996. Liquidity, information,
and infrequently traded stocks. The Journal of Finance 51 (4), 1405–1436.
Easley, D., O’Hara, M., 1987. Price, trade size, and information in securities markets.
Journal of Financial Economics 19 (1), 69 – 90.
30

=== PAGE 32 ===
Fos, V., February 2012. The disciplinary eﬀects of proxy contests, working paper.
Franz, D., Rao, R., Tripathy, N., 1995. Informed trading risk and bid-ask spread changes
around open market stock repurchases in the NASDAQ market. Journal of Financial
Research 18, 311327.
Garﬁnkel, J., Nimalendran, M., 2003. Market structure and trader anonymity: An
analysis of insider trading. The Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 38 (3),
591–610.
Ginglinger, E., Hamon, J., 2007. Actual share repurchases, timing and liquidity. Journal
of Banking & Finance 31 (3), 915 – 938.
Glosten, L. R., 1987. Components of the bid-ask spread and the statistical properties of
transaction prices. The Journal of Finance 42 (5), 1293–1307.
Glosten, L. R., Harris, L. E., 1988. Estimating the components of the bid/ask spread.
Journal of Financial Economics 21 (1), 123–142.
Glosten, L. R., Milgrom, P. R., 1985. Bid, ask and transaction prices in a specialist
market with heterogeneously informed traders. Journal of Financial Economics 14 (1),
71–100.
Goyenko, R., Holden, C., Trzcinka, C., May 2009. Do liquidity measures measure
liquidity? Journal of Financial Economics 92 (2), 153–181.
Hasbrouck, J., 1991. Measuring the information content of stock trades. The Journal of
Finance 46 (1), 179–207.
Hasbrouck, J., 2009. Trading costs and returns for U.S. equities: Estimating eﬀective
costs from daily data. The Journal of Finance 64 (3), 1445–1477.
Hasbrouck, J., October 2010. The best bid and oﬀer: A short note on programs and
practices, working paper.
31

=== PAGE 33 ===
Hendershott, T., Jones, C. M., Menkveld, A. J., 2011. Does algorithmic trading improve
liquidity? The Journal of Finance 66 (1), 1–33.
Holden, C. W., Jacobsen, S., August 2011. The breakdown of standard microstructure
techniques: And what to do about it, working paper.
Kelly, B., Ljungqvist, A., July 2011. Testing asymmetric-information asset pricing
models, working paper.
Klein, A., Zur, E., January 2009. Entrepreneurial shareholder activism: Hedge funds
and other private investors. The Journal of Finance 64 (1), 187–229.
Kyle, A., November 1985. Continuous auctions and insider trading. Econometrica 53 (6),
1315–1335.
Kyle, A., Vila, J.-L., 1991. Noise trading and takeovers. RAND Journal of Economics
22 (1), 54–71.
Lakonishok, J., Lee, I., 2001. Are insider trades informative? Review of Financial Studies
14 (1), 79–11.
Lee, C. M. C., Ready, M. J., 1991. Inferring trade direction from intraday data. The
Journal of Finance 46 (2), 733–746.
Lesmond, D., Ogden, J., Trzcinka, C., 1999. A new estimate of transaction costs. Review
of Financial Studies 12 (5), 1113–1141.
Lin, J.-C., Sanger, G. C., Booth, G. G., 1995. Trade size and components of the bid-ask
spread. The Review of Financial Studies 8 (4), 1153–1183.
Maug, E., February 1998. Large shareholders as monitors: Is there a trade-oﬀ between
liquidity and control? The Journal of Finance 53 (1), 65–98.
32

=== PAGE 34 ===
Miller, J. M., McConnell, J. J., 1995. Open-market share repurchase programs and bid-
ask spreads on the nyse: Implications for corporate payout policy. The Journal of
Financial and Quantitative Analysis 30 (3), 365–382.
Obizhaeva, A., March 2011. Selection bias in liquidity estimates, working paper.
Pastor, L., Stambaugh, R., 2003. Liquidity risk and expected stock returns. The Journal
of Political Economy 111 (3), 642–685.
Singh, A., Zaman, M., Krishnamurti, C., 1994. Liquidity changes associated with open
market repurchases. Financial Management 23 (1), 47–55.
Stoll, H. R., 1989. Inferring the components of the bid-ask spread: Theory and empirical
tests. The Journal of Finance 44 (1), 115–134.
Vega, C., 2006. Stock price reaction to public and private information. Journal of
Financial Economics 82 (1), 103 – 133.
33

=== PAGE 35 ===
Figure 1: The Schedule 13D Time Line This ﬁgure summarizes the time line of
a Schedule ﬁling. The event day is the day on which Schedule 13D ﬁler’s ownership
crosses the 5% threshold. Within ten days after the event day the ﬁler ﬁles with the
SEC and the ﬁling day is determined. The ﬁling includes information on trades during
the sixty-day period that precedes the ﬁling day (“sixty-day disclosure period”).
Figure 2: Time Distribution of Schedule 13D Filings with Information on
Trades. The dark bars represent the number of Schedule 13D ﬁlings that satisfy the
criteria listed in Section 2.1. The total number of Schedule 13D ﬁlings that satisfy the
these criteria is 1,725 during 2001-2010.
34

=== PAGE 36 ===
Figure 3: Trading Strategy of Schedule 13D Filers before the Filing Day. The
solid line (right axis) plots the probability that a Schedule 13D ﬁler trades at least one
share on a given day. For every distance to the ﬁling day, t−τ, the probability that
a Schedule 13D ﬁler trades at least one share is the number of ﬁlings with a non-zero
trade by the ﬁler divided by the total number of Schedule 13D ﬁlings in the sample. We
deﬁne the distance to the ﬁling day as the number of days between a trading day,τ, and
the ﬁling day,t. The ﬁling day corresponds to the day of ﬁling with the SEC. The dark
bars (left axis) represent the percentage of outstanding shares traded by Schedule 13D
ﬁlers, from 60 days prior to the ﬁling day. For every Schedule 13D ﬁling and distance
to the ﬁling day, t−τ, we calculate the percentage of outstanding shares traded by the
ﬁler as the ratio between the number of shares traded by the ﬁler and the number of
shares outstanding. If no trade is reported on a given day by the ﬁler, the percentage
of outstanding shares traded by the ﬁler is set to zero. Then, for every distance to the
ﬁling day, t−τ, the percentage of outstanding shares traded by Schedule 13D ﬁlers is
the average of the percentage of outstanding shares traded among all ﬁlings. The dashed
line (right axis) plots the probability of trading with a Schedule 13D ﬁler. For every
distance to the ﬁling day, t−τ, the probability of trading with a Schedule 13D ﬁler is
the average of the number of shares traded by the ﬁler divided by security’s volume from
CRSP.
35

=== PAGE 37 ===
Figure 4: Icahn Capital LP and Chesapeake Energy Corporation. The event day
is the day on which ﬁler’s ownership exceeds the 5% threshold. The ﬁling day corresponds
to the day of ﬁling with the SEC. The dark bars plot the percentage of outstanding shares
owned by the ﬁler. The dashed line plots the 5% threshold. Since during the (t-60,t-37)
period the ﬁler did not trade stocks of Chesapeake Energy Corporation, this period is
not plotted in this ﬁgure.
36

=== PAGE 38 ===
(a) Panel A: 2001-2010 Sample Period
(b) Panel B: 2003-2010 Sample Period
Figure 5: Buy-and-Hold Abnormal Return around the Filing Date. The solid
line (right axis) plots the average buy-and-hold return around the ﬁling date in excess
of the buy-and-hold return of the value-weight market from 60 days prior the ﬁling day
to 40 days afterwards. The ﬁling day is the day on which the Schedule 13D ﬁling is
submitted to the SEC. The dark bars (left axis) plot the increase (in percentage points)
in the share turnover during the same time window compared to the average turnover
rate during the preceding (t-120, t-60) event window.
37

=== PAGE 39 ===
(a) Panel A
(b) Panel B
Figure 6: Liquidity Measures around the Filing Date. The solid line plots the Kyle
Lambda (Panel A) and the Amihud Illiquidity measure (Panel B) from 60 days prior
the ﬁling day to 40 days afterwards. The dashed lines plots the third-order polynomial
that ﬁts the liquidity measure. Liquidity measures are deﬁned in Section 4.
38

=== PAGE 40 ===
Figure 7: Decomposition of Abnormal Share Turnover. The bars plot the
abnormal volume as percentage of outstanding shares from 60 days prior to the ﬁling
day to the ﬁling day. The dashed part of each bar plots the average percentage of
outstanding shares purchased by Schedule 13-F ﬁlers. The dark part of each bar plots
the remaining part of abnormal volume that does not come from Schedule 13D ﬁlers.
39

=== PAGE 41 ===
T
able 1: Trading Strategy of Schedule 13D Filers. This table presents descriptive statistics of Schedule 13D ﬁlers’
trading strategies. Columns (1)-(3) report cross-event means of characteristics and columns (4)-(6) report cross-event
medians of characteristics. Columns (1) and (4) report descriptive statistics from the full sample, which covers all
days with informed trades during the sixty-day period before the ﬁling day. The ﬁling day is the day on which the
Schedule 13D ﬁling is submitted to the SEC. Columns (2) and (5) report descriptive statistics from days with informed
trades during the pre-event day period (‘Before’). The event day is the day on which ﬁler’s ownership exceeds the 5%
threshold. Columns (3) and (6) report descriptive statistics from days with informed trades during the post-event day
period (‘After’). ‘Informed trade’ is a trade executed by a Schedule 13D ﬁler. Stock ownership on the ﬁling date is the
total beneﬁcial ownership of the Schedule 13D ﬁler on the ﬁling date. Number of trading days is the number of days
with informed trades during the corresponding period. % of trading days with informed trades is the ratio of days with
informed trades to the number of trading days. Informed volume (per trading day) is the total number of shares traded
by a Schedule 13D ﬁler (per trading day) on days with informed trades. Dollar informed volume (per trading day) is the
total dollar amount traded by a Schedule 13D ﬁler (per trading day) on days with informed trades. Change in ownership
(per trading day) is the increase in stock ownership (per trading day), as percentage of number of shares outstanding, on
days with informed trades. Informed turnover is the percentage of daily turnover that corresponds to the trades executed
by Schedule 13D ﬁlers.
Mean
Median
Full Sample Before After Full Sample Before After
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
Sto
ck ownership on the ﬁling date 7.68% 6.20%
Number of trading days 15.1 13.1 3.7 13 11 3
% of trading days with informed trades 34.8% 34.7% 57.1% 30.0% 29.4% 57.2%
Informed volume 1,304,126 948,175 535,561 393,387 252,201 144,038
Informed volume per trading day 132,194 102,165 195,784 30,191 21,667 45,102
Informed volume (m$) 25.6 17.9 11.3 3.3 2.2 1.3
Informed volume per trading day (m$) 3.2 2.6 4.6 0.3 0.2 0.5
Change in stock ownership 3.8% 2.5% 1.8% 2.8% 1.8% 0.9%
Change in ownership per trading day 0.5% 0.3% 0.8% 0.2% 0.1% 0.3%
Informed turnover (%) 29.9% 26.1% 36.2% 22.6% 19.4% 27.8%
40

=== PAGE 42 ===
Table 2: Proﬁts from Informed Trades. This table presents summary statistics
of three measures of proﬁts. Trading Proﬁt is deﬁned as q′(ppost− p), where q is
the vector of trades (purchases are positive and sales are negative), ppost is the post-
announcement price, and p is the vector of transaction prices. The post-announcement
price is the average price during the week that follows the ﬁling date. Total Proﬁt is
deﬁned as Trading Profit + (ppost−p0)w0, where p0 is the price of the ﬁrst transaction
disclosed in the Schedule 13D ﬁling and w0 is the initial ownership, established prior to
the ﬁrst transaction disclosed in the Schedule 13D ﬁling. Value Created is deﬁned as
(ppost−p0)SHOUT , where SHOUT is the number of shares outstanding. Market CAP
is market capitalization of the targeted company.
Market CAP ($) Trading Proﬁt ($) Total Proﬁt ($) Value Created ($)
Quantile Median Mean Median Mean Median Mean Median
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8)
Q1 - low 23,659,879 50,877 9,810 100,295 52,559 1,270,457 844,707
Q2 63,368,069 90,877 26,025 197,147 59,418 1,819,414 1,828,604
Q3 151,542,849 308,514 65,642 369,945 291,283 6,626,805 5,969,746
Q4 404,095,821 568,519 124,864 1,133,935 307,943 19,634,771 8,424,417
Q5 - high 1,818,551,960 1,434,720 586,761 2,982,360 1,501,983 46,216,662 28,635,234
41

=== PAGE 43 ===
Table 3: Performance of Trading Strategies Based on Schedule 13D Filers’
Transactions. This table presents evidence on performance of portfolios that replicate
trades by Schedule 13D ﬁlers. Panel A reports performance of an equal-weighted
portfolio return, which is constructed as follows. For every trading day, we calculate
the equal-weighted average of returns on stocks held by Schedule 13D ﬁlers. We report
results for three investment horizons: from 90 days before ﬁling to 30 days after ﬁling,
from 60 days before ﬁling to 30 days after ﬁling, and from 30 days before ﬁling to 30
days after ﬁling. Panel B reports the performance of a portfolio-weighted return, which
is constructed as follows. For every trading day, we calculate the dollar investment of
Schedule 13D ﬁlers in the underlying security. Then we calculate the average return
on stocks held by Schedule 13D ﬁlers for every trading date, where the weights are
proportional to the dollar investment in each security. The trading strategy starts with
the ﬁrst disclosed transaction. We assume that Schedule 13D ﬁlers do not change their
position during 30 days that follow the ﬁling date. Table reports estimates of daily alpha
(α) and the corresponding t-statistics. Standard errors are clustered by calendar date.
One-Factor Three-Factor Four-Factor
Investment Horizon Model Model Model
α t (α) α t(α ) α t (α)
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
Panel A : Equal-Weighted Returns
(fday− 90,fday + 30) 0.14% 8.04 0.13% 7.66 0.13% 7.79
(fday− 60,fday + 30) 0.17% 8.58 0.15% 8.21 0.15% 8.30
(fday− 30,fday + 30) 0.21% 8.99 0.20% 8.61 0.20% 8.71
Panel B : Portfolio-Weighted Returns
(transactions,fday + 30) 0.10% 3.31 0.09% 3.00 0.09% 3.04
42

=== PAGE 44 ===
T
able 4: Summary Statistics of Liquidity Measures. This table reports the summary statistics of liquidity measures
on daily data. All liquidity measures are deﬁned in Section 4. The sample covers ( fday− 60−year, fday− 1−year)
period, where fday is the Schedule 13D ﬁling day. First, for every Schedule 13D ﬁling we calculate the average level of
a liquidity measure during the ( fday− 60−year, fday− 1−year) period. Then, we calculate summary statistic of
liquidity measure among all events. The data set combines TAQ, CRSP, and the hand-collected sample of Schedule 13D
ﬁlings (see Section 2).
Liquidit
y Min Percentile Max Mean Std Dev
Measure Description 5th 25th Median 75th 95th
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9)
P
anel A : High-Frequency Measures
λ∗ 106 the slope coeﬃcient of -201.7220 0.4600 1.7943 6.2807 20.6310 78.3130 414.5880 19.0390 36.5350
retitn =δit +λitSitn +εitn
espread dollar-weighted eﬀective spread 0.0003 0.0011 0.0031 0.0082 0.0180 0.0480 0.4285 0.0149 0.0236
rspread dollar-weighted realized spread -0.0765 -0.0001 0.0004 0.0020 0.0077 0.0278 0.1404 0.0064 0.0118
pimpact dollar-weighted price impact -0.0104 0.0006 0.0017 0.0038 0.0081 0.0247 0.4662 0.0084 0.0210
Panel B : Low-Frequency Measures
illiquidity Amihud’s illiquidity 0.0033 0.0177 0.0543 0.1859 0.5411 2.1057 7.3556 0.4858 0.8111
liquidity Amivest liquidity 0.1151 0.5838 2.5321 7.4699 24.3899 73.8651 457.2598 18.9964 30.8862
baspread Closing bid-ask spread -0.0002 0.0007 0.0019 0.0063 0.0178 0.0596 0.1851 0.0150 0.0228
pin the probability of 0.0000 0.1306 0.2912 0.4616 0.7175 0.9328 0.9988 0.4998 0.2563
informed trade
psgamma reversal measure -0.7516 -0.0443 -0.0017 0.0000 0.0013 0.0433 0.6015 -0.0016 0.0656
zero % of days with zero returns 0.0000 0.0000 0.0000 0.0250 0.0769 0.2703 0.7333 0.0665 0.0983
zero2 % of positive-volume days 0.0000 0.0000 0.0000 0.0250 0.0745 0.2000 0.4762 0.0557 0.0713
with zero returns
43

=== PAGE 45 ===
Table 5: Market-Adjusted Returns and Daily Turnover. This table compares
market-adjusted returns and daily turnover during periods with trades by Schedule 13D
ﬁlers. The data set combines TAQ, CRSP, and the hand-collected sample of Schedule
13D ﬁlings (see Section 2). Market-adjusted return (eret ) is the stock return in excess
of the CRSP value-weighted return. Daily turnover ( to) is daily volume divided by
the number of shares outstanding. Panel A compares level of market-adjusted returns
and daily turnover during the sixty-day disclosure period, (fday − 60,fday − 1), and
the corresponding sixty-day period of the year before the Schedule 13D ﬁling, ( fday−
420,fday − 361). First, for every Schedule 13D ﬁling we calculate the average level
of market-adjusted returns and daily turnover during the sixty-day disclosure period,
(fday− 60,fday − 1). Then, we calculate the average level of market-adjusted returns
and daily turnover among all events. Column (1) reports the average level of market-
adjusted returns and daily turnover during the sixty-day disclosure period among all
events. Similarly, Column (2) reports the average level of market-adjusted returns and
daily turnover during the corresponding sixty-day period of the year before the Schedule
13D ﬁling, (fday−420,fday−361). Column (3) reports the diﬀerences between columns
(1) and (2). Column (4) reports the t-statistic of the diﬀerence. Panel B compares level
of market-adjusted returns and daily turnover during on days when Schedule 13D ﬁlers
trade and on days when Schedule 13D ﬁlers do not trade. The sample covers the sixty-day
disclosure period only. First, for every Schedule 13D ﬁling we calculate the average level
of market-adjusted returns and daily turnover during the sixty-day disclosure period
on days with trades by the Schedule 13D ﬁler. Column (1) reports the average level
of market-adjusted returns and daily turnover on days with trades by Schedule 13D
ﬁlers among all events. Column (2) reports the average level of market-adjusted returns
and daily turnover on days with no trades by Schedule 13D ﬁlers during the sixty-day
disclosure period. Column (3) reports the diﬀerences between columns (1) and (2).
Column (4) reports the t-statistic of the diﬀerence. Panel C .. *, **, and *** indicate
statistical signiﬁcance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels.
Panel A
(fday-60,fday-1) (fday-420,fday-361) diﬀerence t-stat
(1) (2) (3) (4)
eret 0.0011 0.0002 0.0009*** 4.08
to 0.0103 0.0072 0.0030*** 9.06
Panel B
days with days with no
informed trading informed trading diﬀerence t-stat
(1) (2) (3) (4)
eret 0.0062 -0.0004 0.0067*** 4.92
to 0.0218 0.0085 0.0132*** 12.36
44

=== PAGE 46 ===
Table 6: Market-Adjusted Returns and Daily Turnover – Continued.This table
compares market-adjusted returns and daily turnover during periods with trades by
Schedule 13D ﬁlers. The data set combines TAQ, CRSP, and the hand-collected sample
of Schedule 13D ﬁlings (see Section 2). Market-adjusted return (eret) is the stock return
in excess of the CRSP value-weighted return. Daily turnover (to) is daily volume divided
by the number of shares outstanding. We regress market-adjusted returns (columns
(1)-(3)) and daily turnover (columns (4)-(6)) on indicator of informed trading, using the
following speciﬁcation: yit =α+γitrade it+ϵit, whereyit is either market-adjusted return
or daily turnover for company i on day t, and itrade indicates days on which Schedule
13D ﬁlers trade. Columns (1) and (4) reports results based on daily observations from
120 days before the ﬁling day to 40 days after the ﬁling day, where the ﬁling day is the day
on which the Schedule 13D ﬁling is submitted to the SEC. Columns (2) and (5) report
estimates of a speciﬁcation augmented by event ﬁxed eﬀects:yit =α+γitrade it+ηi+ϵit,
where ηi are event ﬁxed eﬀects. Columns (3) and (6) report results with events ﬁxed
eﬀects based of daily observations from 60 days before the ﬁling day to the ﬁling day.
In each column, we report estimated coeﬃcients and their t-statistics, calculated using
heteroscedasticity robust standard errors. *, **, and *** indicate statistical signiﬁcance
at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels.
Dependent Variable eret eret eret to to to
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
itrade 0.0032*** 0.0034*** 0.0053*** 0.0068*** 0.0072*** 0.0090***
[8.46] [8.14] [9.21] [26.50] [15.30] [16.24]
Constant 0.0006*** 0.0005*** -0.0007*** 0.0089*** 0.0089*** 0.0083***
[4.66] [9.10] [-3.32] [165.52] [131.19] [42.30]
Event FE No Yes Yes No Yes Yes
Observations 106,897 106,897 39,783 106,897 106,897 39,783
R-squared 0.001 0.001 0.003 0.015 0.021 0.034
45

=== PAGE 47 ===
Table 7: Liquidity Measures during the Sixty-Day Disclosure Period. This
table reports the summary statistics of liquidity measures during the sixty-day disclosure
period and the corresponding sixty-day period during the year before the Schedule 13D
ﬁling. The data set combines TAQ, CRSP, and the hand-collected sample of Schedule
13D ﬁlings (see Section 2). All liquidity measures are deﬁned in Section 4 and are 99.9%
winsorized. Market-adjusted return ( eret) is the stock return in excess of the CRSP
value-weighted return. Daily turnover ( to) is daily volume divided by the number of
shares outstanding. For every Schedule 13D ﬁling we calculate the average level of a
liquidity measure during the sixty-day disclosure period, (fday− 60,fday− 1). Column
(1) reports the average level of liquidity measures during the sixty-day disclosure period
among all events. Similarly, Column (2) reports the average level of liquidity measures
during the corresponding sixty-day period of the year before the Schedule 13D ﬁling,
(fday− 420,fday − 361). Column (3) reports the diﬀerences between columns (1) and
(2). Column (4) reports the t-statistic of the diﬀerence. *, **, and *** indicate statistical
signiﬁcance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels.
(fday-60,fday-1) (fday-420,fday-361) diﬀerence t-stat
(1) (2) (3) (4)
Low F requency Measures
illiquidity 0.4438 0.4794 -0.0357** -2.29
liquidity 26.7813 19.1090 7.6723** 7.99
baspread 0.0132 0.0149 -0.0017*** -3.13
pin 0.4298 0.5000 -0.0703*** -10.85
psgamma -0.0025 -0.0012 -0.0013 -0.54
zero 0.0671 0.0659 0.0012 0.51
zero2 0.0590 0.0553 0.0037* 1.83
High F requency Measures
λ∗ 106 16.3110 18.0540 -1.7430* -1.68
espread 0.0133 0.0148 -0.0015** -2.48
rspread 0.0057 0.0064 -0.0008*** -2.77
pimpact 0.0077 0.0083 -0.0006 -1.03
46

=== PAGE 48 ===
Table 8: Liquidity Measures on Days when Schedule 13D Filers Trade. This
table reports the summary statistics of liquidity measures on days when Schedule 13D
ﬁlers trade. The sample covers the sixty-day disclosure period only. The data set
combines TAQ, CRSP, and the hand-collected sample of Schedule 13D ﬁlings (see Section
2). All liquidity measures are deﬁned in Section 4 and are 99.9% winsorized. Market-
adjusted return (eret) is the stock return in excess of the CRSP value-weighted return.
Daily turnover (to) is daily volume divided by the number of shares outstanding. For
every Schedule 13D ﬁling we calculate the average level of a liquidity measure during the
sixty-day disclosure period on days with trades by the Schedule 13D ﬁler. Column (1)
reports the average level of liquidity measures on days with trades by Schedule 13D ﬁlers
among all events. Similarly, Column (2) reports the average level of liquidity measures
on days with no trades by Schedule 13D ﬁlers during the sixty-day disclosure period.
Column (3) reports the diﬀerences between columns (1) and (2). Column (4) reports the
t-statistic of the diﬀerence. *, **, and *** indicate statistical signiﬁcance at the 10%,
5%, and 1% levels.
days with days with no
informed trading informed trading diﬀerence t-stat
(1) (2) (3) (4)
Low F requency Measures
illiquidity 0.2575 0.4808 -0.2233*** -11.42
liquidity 36.6643 24.8088 11.8555*** 8.59
baspread 0.0109 0.0126 -0.0017*** -5.89
zero 0.0637 0.0632 0.0005 0.14
zero2 0.0635 0.0552 0.0083** 2.26
High F requency Measures
λ∗ 106 12.3510 16.8494 -4.4985*** -5.36
espread 0.0109 0.0125 -0.0016*** -2.89
rspread 0.0046 0.0054 -0.0007** -2.62
pimpact 0.0062 0.0072 -0.0011* -1.94
47

=== PAGE 49 ===
T
able 9: Informed Trading and Liquidity Measures. This table shows the impact of informed trading on liquidity
measures. In Panel A we regress each of liquidity measures described in Section 4 on indicator of informed trading,
using the following speciﬁcation: liqit = α +γitrade it +ϵit, where liqit is a measure of liquidity for company i on day
t, and itrade indicates days on which Schedule 13D ﬁlers trade. The analysis is based on daily observations from 120
days before the ﬁling day to 40 days after the ﬁling day, where the ﬁling day is the day on which the Schedule 13D
ﬁling is submitted to the SEC. In Panel B we estimate the speciﬁcation from Panel A, while adding event ﬁxed eﬀects:
liqit =α +γitrade it +ηi +ϵit, where ηi are event ﬁxed eﬀects. In Panel C we estimate the speciﬁcation from Panel B,
while restricting the sample to daily observations from 60 days before the ﬁling day to the ﬁling day. In each column,
we report estimated coeﬃcients and their t-statistics, calculated using heteroscedasticity robust standard errors. *, **,
and *** indicate statistical signiﬁcance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels.
HIGH
FREQUENCY MEASURES LOW FREQUENCY MEASURES
Dependent Variable λ∗ 106 espread rspread pimpact illiquidity liquidity baspread zero zero 2
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9)
Panel
A
itrade -2.4077*** -0.0023*** -0.0011*** -0.0012*** -0.1352*** 14.5902*** -0.0023*** 0.0104*** 0.0104***
[-10.13] [-12.62] [-10.95] [-8.42] [-33.41] [21.65] [-14.86] [5.09] [5.09]
Constant 11.3420*** 0.0112*** 0.0048*** 0.0062*** 0.3447*** 25.6913*** 0.0107*** 0.0498*** 0.0498***
[102.65] [134.18] [101.12] [90.18] [143.81] [151.18] [157.60] [69.24] [69.24]
Observations 79,801 106,897 106,897 106,897 106,895 101,416 105,727 106,895 106,895
Panel B
itrade -2.1531*** -0.0010*** -0.0005*** -0.0005*** -0.0947*** 12.2101*** -0.0009*** 0.0126*** 0.0126***
[-7.31] [-4.69] [-4.02] [-3.06] [-13.51] [8.88] [-5.11] [5.14] [5.14]
Constant 11.3028*** 0.0110*** 0.0047*** 0.0061*** 0.3389*** 26.0301*** 0.0105*** 0.0495*** 0.0495***
[249.41] [364.26] [247.06] [251.02] [336.44] [132.93] [393.20] [140.75] [140.75]
Observations 79,801 106,897 106,897 106,897 106,895 101,416 105,727 106,895 106,895
Panel C
itrade -2.7457*** -0.0009*** -0.0007*** -0.0005** -0.1173*** 13.3584*** -0.0012*** 0.0117*** 0.0117***
[-8.77] [-3.57] [-4.63] [-2.04] [-13.97] [8.50] [-5.45] [3.96] [3.96]
Constant 11.5867*** 0.0108*** 0.0047*** 0.0062*** 0.3520*** 26.2981*** 0.0103*** 0.0488*** 0.0488***
[97.16] [120.76] [85.56] [78.93] [118.89] [47.77] [138.28] [46.82] [46.82]
Observations 29,884 39,783 39,783 39,783 39,783 37,678 39,357 39,783 39,783
48

=== PAGE 50 ===
T
able 10: Uninformed Volume, Market Return, and Trading Strategy of Schedule 13D Filers. This table
shows the impact of uninformed volume and market return on trading strategy on Schedule 13D ﬁlers. In Panel A we
estimate the following speciﬁcation: itradeit = α +γ1pdvolt +γ2mktrft +γ3liqit +ϵit, where itrade indicates days on
which Schedule 13D ﬁlers trade, pdvol is the percentage deviation of CRSP volume from its annual average level, mktrf
is market return in excess of the risk-free rate, and liqit is a measure of liquidity for company i on day t. The analysis is
based on daily observations from 60 days before the ﬁling day to the ﬁling day, where the ﬁling day is the day on which
the Schedule 13D ﬁling is submitted to the SEC. In Panel B we estimate the speciﬁcation from Panel A, while adding
event ﬁxed eﬀects: itradeit =α +γ1pdvolt +γ2mktrft +γ3liqit +ηi +ϵit, whereηi are event ﬁxed eﬀects. In each column,
we report estimated coeﬃcients and their t-statistics, calculated using heteroscedasticity robust standard errors. *, **,
and *** indicate statistical signiﬁcance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels.
HIGH
FREQUENCY MEASURES LOW FREQUENCY MEASURES
Liquidity Measure λ∗ 106 espread rspread pimpact illiquidity liquidity baspread zero zero 2
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9)
Panel
A
pdvol 0.0424*** 0.0387*** 0.0386*** 0.0384*** 0.0366*** 0.0425*** 0.0406*** 0.0387*** 0.0387***
[3.27] [3.49] [3.48] [3.45] [3.33] [3.77] [3.64] [3.48] [3.48]
mktrf -0.4180** -0.3895** -0.3757** -0.3804** -0.3993** -0.4303** -0.4182** -0.3678** -0.3678**
[-2.06] [-2.30] [-2.22] [-2.25] [-2.38] [-2.49] [-2.46] [-2.17] [-2.17]
liq -0.0010*** -1.1277*** -2.0175*** -0.8974*** -0.0903*** 0.0010*** -1.8980*** 0.0487*** 0.0487***
[-11.37] [-11.53] [-12.12] [-8.68] [-25.08] [24.10] [-16.19] [4.45] [4.45]
Constant 0.3917*** 0.3645*** 0.3615*** 0.3580*** 0.3807*** 0.3200*** 0.3712*** 0.3500*** 0.3500***
[130.55] [138.48] [142.56] [143.71] [140.36] [118.70] [136.37] [142.47] [142.47]
Observations 29,884 39,783 39,783 39,783 39,783 37,678 39,357 39,783 39,783
Panel B
pdvol 0.0785*** 0.0636*** 0.0630*** 0.0636*** 0.0621*** 0.0650*** 0.0654*** 0.0638*** 0.0638***
[3.40] [3.33] [3.30] [3.33] [3.26] [3.46] [3.41] [3.34] [3.34]
mktrf -0.4895** -0.3312** -0.3305** -0.3271** -0.3624** -0.3569** -0.3635** -0.3247** -0.3247**
[-2.46] [-2.08] [-2.08] [-2.05] [-2.28] [-2.17] [-2.26] [-2.04] [-2.04]
liq -0.0016*** -0.4222*** -1.0739*** -0.2438** -0.0936*** 0.0014*** -1.3199*** 0.0444*** 0.0444***
[-8.24] [-3.38] [-4.60] [-2.07] [-10.27] [10.90] [-5.71] [4.02] [4.02]
Constant 0.3976*** 0.3570*** 0.3573*** 0.3540*** 0.3816*** 0.3066*** 0.3654*** 0.3502*** 0.3502***
[192.88] [271.24] [346.11] [497.26] [134.70] [77.17] [160.01] [597.62] [597.62]
Observations 29,884 39,783 39,783 39,783 39,783 37,678 39,357 39,783 39,783
49