=== PAGE 1 ===
 
 
 
The Role of Stock Liquidity in Mergers and Acquisitions: 
Evidence from a Quasi-natural Experiment*  
 
 
 
Nishant Dass 
Georgia Institute of Technology 
Email: nishant.dass@scheller.gatech.edu 
 
 
Sheng Huang 
Singapore Management University 
Email: shenghuang@smu.edu.sg  
 
 
Johan Maharjan 
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute 
Email: maharj2@rpi.edu 
 
 
Vikram Nanda 
University of Texas at Dallas 
Email: vikram.nanda@utdallas.edu 
 
 
 
 
May 2016 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
*We thank  Itay Goldstein, Todd Gormley,  Jarrad Harford , and seminar participants at Singapore Management 
University and Tshinghua University for helpful comments. All remaining errors are our own. 

=== PAGE 2 ===
 
 
The Role of Stock Liquidity in Mergers and Acquisitions: 
Evidence from a Quasi-natural Experiment 
 
 
Abstract 
We examine how stock liquidity – of both acquirers and targets – affects acquisitions. We 
contend, relying on a simple model, that liquidity enhances acquirer stock value as an acquisition 
currency, especially when target stock is less liquid. Supportive of this acquisition-currency 
hypothesis: greater acquirer (lower target) liquidity increases acquisition  likelihood and payment 
with stock, reduces acquisition  premium, and improves acquirer announcement returns in equity 
deals. Our identification strategy relies on the exogenous variation in stock  liquidity induced by 
changes in the composition of Russell -1000/2000 indices to establish causality. Consistent with 
the beneficial role of stock liquidity, firms take steps to improve stock  liquidity prior to 
acquisitions. 
 
 
 
JEL classification: G30, G34 
Keywords: Stock liquidity, mergers and acquisitions, Russell index reconstitution 
 
 

=== PAGE 3 ===
1 
 
  “The Covance board also discussed with Goldman Sachs [its financial advisor]  
                                             the liquid market for LabCorp stock, which would allow Covance stockholders                                                                 
                      to either  keep or trade the stock portion of the consideration.” 
 
                  From Board of Directors of Covance Inc. on its  
             proposed merger with Laboratory Corp of America 
 
 
1. Introduction 
In well over half of the acquisitions in the US, the payment is fully or partially made with 
acquirer stock.1 In this paper, we explore the role of stock liquidity – both of the acquirer and the 
target – in the merger and acquisition process. Anecdotes, like the quote d one  above, abound 
suggesting that targets value the liquidity of acquirers’ stock. 2  Our contention is that liquidity 
makes stock more valuable as an acquisition currency, especially when the target firm’s stock is 
less liquid. We propose a simple model of stock liquidity in the context of mergers and test its 
predictions. Our  empirical identification exploits the exogenous  variation in stock liquidity of 
firms induced by the annual Russell index reconstitution. Supportive of this acquisition currency 
hypothesis, we find that stock liquidity of the acquirer relative to that of the target significantly 
affects the ability of firms to make acquisitions, the method of payment, the acqui sition 
premiums, and ultimately, shareholder value. Further, we document that firms take measures to 
manage their stock liquidity prior to undertaking acquisitions. 
      Stock liquidity can affect the takeover process via different channels. In addition t o the 
acquisition currency channel, we consider (in broad terms) two alternative types of channels 
through which liquidity can impact takeovers. We label these as the governance and the valuation 
channels. While some of the predictions of our hypothesis ov erlap with those of the alternative 
channels, others are specific to the acquisition currency channel. Hence, our empirical approach 
                                                           
1 A majority of the acquisitions over the 1990 -2014 period in the US have been paid for using at least some acquir er 
stock i.e., all-stock or mixed stock-and-cash (e.g., Boone, Lie, and Liu, 2014).  
2 More can be seen from cases where Northwest Bancshares Inc. acquired LNB Bancorp Inc., FNB Corp. acquired 
PVF Capital Corp., and Pacific Premier Bancorp Inc. acquired San Diego Trust Bank. In all these deals, the acquirers’ 
stock liquidity was considered to be  an important factor in the merger and acquisition consideration by the targets. 
According to the disclosures on the deal negotiation process, comments such as “the lack of liquidity in acquirer B’s 
stock” and “the liquidity of each party’s stock” are often made in the boards’ ex planations on either accepting or 
rejecting a deal.  

=== PAGE 4 ===
2 
 
is to provide evidence that is best explained by the acquisition currency channel, but not by the 
alternative channels. In other words, while liquidity could affect acquisition through different 
channels, our evidence indicates that the acquisition currency has a significant and discernible 
effect on the acquisition process.  
      Our hypothesis is that higher liquidity of the acquirer’s stock, and correspondingly lower 
target liquidity, can render an acquirer more attractive to the target and increase the likelihood 
that the target will accept stock as the acquisition currency. We propose a stylized model to argue 
that greater liquidity of the merged firm would allow shorter -term target investors to trade their 
stock more quickly and with lower price impact. For most target shareholders, greater liquidity of 
the acquirer’s stock mit igates the key difference between stock and cash payment in terms of 
liquidity provision while maintaining benefits that are unique to stock payment (such as deferred 
capital gains taxes). We refer to this as the Acquisition Currency (or Currency) hypothes is or 
channel.  
      Our acquisition currency model delivers a number of predictions that we subsequently subject 
to empirical testing. First, since firms with more liquid stock (relative to target) are likely to make 
stock acquisitions on better terms, they are more likely to make acquisitions and to make them by 
paying stock, ceteris paribus. Second, more liquid acquirers are expected to pay lower premiums 
in stock acquisitions, but not in cash acquisitions. This is because target shareholders will be 
willing to pay a “liquidity premium” for an acquirer’s more liquid stock. Third, anticipating the 
benefits of using more liquid stock in stock acquisitions, firms will take deliberate steps to 
improve stock liquidity prior to stock acquisitions. Finally, the  more liquid the acquirer’s stock 
(relative to target), the more favorable the acquirer’s deal announcement abnormal returns are 
expected to be for stock acquisitions. This is because acquirers’ shareholders gain more (or lose 
less) from acquisitions paid with more liquid stock as they pay lower deal premiums.   
      Of the alternative modes through which liquidity could affect acquisitions, we label the first 
as the Governance channel. The notion is that greater stock liquidity could reduce the noise in 

=== PAGE 5 ===
3 
 
stock prices, and thus make it optimal for firms to give managers stronger stock-based incentives, 
thereby reducing agency problems. Greater stock liquidity could also f acilitate the creation of 
blockholders and lead to better monitoring of managers (e.g., Edmans, Fang, and Zur, 2013). The 
reduction in agency problems, whether through strong er incentive contracting or through better 
monitoring, could enhance the quality of the acquisitions made by the firm.3 Empirical tests allow 
us to distinguish between the governance and the acquisition currency channels. In particular, the 
governance channel has no prediction in terms of the effect of target liquidity on the acquisition 
premium or on the greater reliance on stock-for-stock acquisitions, as predicted by the acquisition 
currency hypothesis. 
      The second alternative we label as the Valuation channel. The notion is that liquidity could 
affect acquisitions because of the g reater price informativeness or  lower information asymmetry 
that is  usually associated with greater stock liquid ity. Hence, target shareholders may be less 
concerned about being paid with overvalued stock when the acquirer’s stock is highly liquid. The 
literature suggests that stock acquisitions can often be motivated by the perceived overvaluation 
of acquirer stock (e.g., Shleifer and Vishny, 2003). 4 The more favorable valuation of firms with 
more liquid stocks (Fang, Noe, and Tice, 2009) could also increase firms’ incentives to make 
acquisitions with stock swaps. We note  that while the valuation channel could induce firms to 
rely more on stock -for-stock acquisitions, there is no prediction that the acquisition premium 
would be affected by the target firm’s stock liquidity, as is predicted by the acquisition currency 
hypothesis. 
      To test the predictions of our acquisition currency model, we use a sample of M&As by 
publicly listed acquirers over 1985 -2012 and a variety of measures for stock liquidity. We find 
strong empirical support for our empirical predictions. In di scussing our findings, we briefly 
                                                           
3 A paper that finds support for greater stock liquidity enhancing the acquisition process through the governance 
channel is Roosenboom, Schlingemann, and Vasconcelos(2013). 
4 Several papers deal with ov ervalued stock in acquisitions: Rhodes -Kropf, Robinson, and Viswanathan (2005), Ang 
and Cheng (2006), and Dong, Hirshleifer, Richardson, and Teoh (2006). 

=== PAGE 6 ===
4 
 
present our findings and then discuss our methodological approach to deal with the endogeneity 
inherent in the relation between a firm’s stock liquidity and its decision to make acquisitions. Our 
first empirical result is that the likelihood of a firm making an acquisition and, in particular, 
making a stock acquisition , is positively related to the firm’s stock liquidity. This relationship is 
not only statistically significant, but also economically meaningful. The odds of making an 
acquisition are 0.95 -3.97 times higher following a one -standard-deviation increase in liquidity 
(the odds of making a stock acquisition are even higher), dep ending on the liquidity measure . 
Consistent with liquid stock being a valuable acquisitio n currency, the effect of liquidity on the 
likelihood of making a stock acquisition is stronger for firms that are financially more 
constrained.  
       Also, the fraction of the acquisition payment that is made with stock increases with the 
acquirer’s stock liquidity relative to the target’s in deals involving public targets.  Furthermore, 
because investors with short investment horizons have more need for relatively immediate trading 
after the deal completion than long er-term investors, we would expect them to value the relative 
stock liquidity more if the deal is paid in stock. Consistent with this notion, we find a stronger 
stock-payment-relative-liquidity sensitivity in deals where targets have more short -term investors 
in their investor base.   
      Second, for stock deals, the premium paid by the acquirer to the target as a percentage of the 
target’s stock price two days prior to the deal announcement is negatively related to the acquirer’s 
stock liquidity relative to t he target’s. 5 A one-standard-deviation increase of the acquirer -target 
liquidity difference is associated with a reduction of 1.68% -4.25% in th e premium paid, 
depending on the liquidity measure. This is economically significant, when compared with the 
average premium of 25.9% in stock -paid acquisitions of public targets in our sample . 
                                                           
5 We examine the impact of the acquirer’s relative liquidity to the target’s because target shareholde rs would care 
more about the acquirer’s liquidity incremental to the target’s or the expected change in liquidity brought by the deal. 
Our results remain qualitatively similar if we look at the acquirer’s own liquidity.   

=== PAGE 7 ===
5 
 
Interestingly, consistent with the irrelevance of the acquirer’s stock liquidity for target 
shareholders in cash-paid deals, a similar relation is not found in these deals.  
      Third, firms tend to increase the frequency of earnings guidance provisions and conduct stock 
splits prior to making stock acquisitions. By voluntarily disclosing more information than 
regulations mandate, these firms can reduce information asymmetry between insiders and 
investors, which leads to higher liquidity (e.g., Diamond and Verrecchia, 1991; Beyer, Cohen, 
Lys, and Walther, 2010). Stock splits can lead to more trading and thus more informative stock 
prices, because an increase in uninformed trad ing attracts more informed trading (e.g., Kyle, 
1985). As the literature shows, and we also confirm, these actions help to increase stock 
liquidity.6 
      Finally, for stock deals, acquirers’ three -day [ -1, 1] cumulative abnormal returns (CARs) 
around dea l announcements are positively related to the acquirer’s liquidity (relative to the 
target’s). For instance, a one -standard-deviation increase in the acquirer -target liquidity 
difference is associated with an increase in CARs by 0.51% -0.95%, depending on t he liquidity 
measures. The average (median) three -day CARs for stock deals involving public targets in the 
sample are -3.86% ( -2.94%). And thus the effect of the liquidity difference is economically 
substantial. The value gains associated with more liquid acquirers are consistent with the lower 
premiums they pay for the targets. 
      We briefly describe our identification strategy. Since both stock liquidity and acquisition 
decisions are endogenous, an important contribution of our paper is to exploit the variation in 
stock liquidity that occurs to a narrow bandwidth of firms around the Russell 1000/2000 cutoff 
threshold following th e annual Russell index reconstitution to identify the causal impact of 
liquidity on M&As. Since Russell 1000/2000 index portfolio weights are value weighted, stocks 
at the top of Russell 2000 receive significantly higher weights than stocks at the bottom of 
                                                           
6 For instance, Muscarella and Vet suypens (1996), Coller and Yohn (1997), Lin, Singh, and Yu (2009), and 
Balakrishnan, Billings, Kelly, and Ljungqvist (2014). 

=== PAGE 8 ===
6 
 
Russell 1000. This would lead to substantially higher liquidity of the stocks at the top of Russell 
2000, due possibly to two reasons as follows.  
      The first corresponds to the market microstructure component of stock liquidity (the 
compensation to the market makers for holding inventory and facilitating trades (e.g., Amihud 
and Mendelson, 1991)). There is disproportionately more money passively tracking Russell 2000 
relative to its total market capitalization and also a substantially greater number of products and 
dollar amount actively benchmarked to Russell 2000 than to Russell 1000 (see more details in 
Section 4.2). Thus, in stocks at the top of Russell 2000 (relative to stocks at the bottom of Russell 
1000), there is more passive trading in respo nse to fund flows by passive funds (who will match 
their portfolio weights more closely for stocks at the top of an index to minimize tracking errors) 
and more active trading due to benchmarking strategies. This contributes to the higher liquidity of 
stocks at the top of Russell 2000. The other reason relates to the adverse selection component of 
stock liquidity (the information-related price impact of a trade as described by Kyle (1985)). The 
greater institutional ownership in stocks at the top of Russell 2000 than in stocks at the bottom of 
Russell 1000 (see, e.g., Crane, Michenaud, and Weston, 2014; Appel, Gorml ey, and Keim, 
2016c) incentivizes firms to increase information disclosure and improve firm transparency, and 
hence reduces the adverse selection part of trading cost (Boone and White, 2015).7  
      However, because Russell computes index constituent’s portfolio weights using its 
proprietary float -adjusted end -of-June market capitalization that is meant to account for stock 
liquidity (shares not pu blicly tradable are excluded in the float adjustment), the difference in 
liquidity for the bottom stocks of the Russell 1000 and the top stocks of the Russell 2000 is likely 
to not be exogenous (but is affected by Russell’s float adjustment). Therefore, we  adopt an 
instrument variable estimation approach following Appel , Gormley, and Keim ( 2016c). 
Specifically, we rank stocks based on their end -of-May market capitalization, and select the 
sample using a bandwidth of firms ranked around the 1000 th midway point for each year of the 
                                                           
7  See also Diamond and Verrecchia (1991) and Beyer, Cohen, Lys, and Walther (2010).     

=== PAGE 9 ===
7 
 
sample. We instrument for stock liquidity with an indicator of a stock being in the right 
bandwidth (ranked below the 1000th midway point) in a given year, and identify the impact of the 
instrumented stock liquidity on firm acquisit ion decisions and deal characteristics. Our 
identification assumption is that, for firms ranked close to the 1000 th midway point, being ranked 
slightly below or above the midway point does not directly affect M&As except through its 
impact on stock liquidity. This is reasonable because the variation in stock liquidity in those firms 
is likely to be exogenous after controlling for their market capitalization that determines their 
ranking.  
      We confirm with strong supportive results from the instrument v ariable estimation that the 
effects of stock liquidity are causal. The results are robust to the number of firms included in the 
bandwidth and the functional form of the control for market capitalization. We also show that our 
findings are unlikely to be c aused by the change in acquirers’ corporate governance associated 
with the index reconstitution (Appel, Gormley, and Keim,  2016c). Specifically, this governance 
interpretation cannot explain why a firm being assigned into Russell 2000 is more likely to mak e 
(stock) acquisitions and pay for the acquisitions more in stock, especially when it is more 
financially constrained. Nor would it explain why stock acquisitions and premiums are affected 
by target stock liquidity. Moreover, when focusing on a subsample of firms that are unlikely to 
observe a contrasting effect of index reconstitution on their governance across the 1000th midway 
point, we find that the results of our IV regressions still hold.  
      Our study contri butes to several different strands of the literature. First, we add to the 
literature on the effect of stock liquidity on firms’ decisions, governance, and performance. 
Existing empirical studies have shown that stock liquidity is positively associated wit h firm value 
(Fang, Noe, and Tice, 2009), and can affect executive compensation (Jayaraman and Milbourn, 
2012), corporate governance (e.g., Bharath, Jayaraman, and Nagar, 2013; Edmans, Fang, and Zur, 
2013; Back, Li, Ljungqvist, 2014), and corporate innovat ions (Fang, Tian, and Tice, 2014; Dass 

=== PAGE 10 ===
8 
 
et al., 2015). More generally, our findings are consistent with the stock market having real effects, 
as suggested by a burgeoning literature (see Bond, Edmans, and Goldstein (201 2) for a summary).  
      We show that stock liquidity has real implications on firms’ acquisition decisions and helps to 
lower deal premiums paid, which enhances value for acquirers. Prior studies have focused 
primarily on the (il)liquidity of targets and examined its implication on deal char acteristics and 
pricing (e.g., Shleifer and Vishny, 1992; Koeplin, Sarin, and Shapiro, 2000; Schlingemann, Stulz, 
Walkling, 2002; Officer, 2007; Massa and Xu, 2013). This is in contrast to our focus on stock 
liquidity of public acquirers jointly with the liquidity of targets. For instance, Koeplin, Sarin, and 
Shapiro (2000) and Officer (2007) document a price discount for unlisted targets because sellers 
cannot trade their equity easily. 8 Massa and Xu (2013) find that acquiring a more liquid target is 
associated with an increase in the liquidity of the combined firm, and public acquirers prefer 
more liquid targets and are willing to pay more for them. They, however, do not consider the 
impact of acquirers’ liquidity.  
      Our finding that acquirer’s stock liquidity is positively related to acquirer’s announcement 
returns in stock acquisitions of publicly -listed targets is consistent with Roosenboom, 
Schlingemann, and Vasconcelos ( 2013). However, they focus primarily on the relation between 
stock liquidity and acquirer returns in acquisitions of unlisted targets, scenarios where they argue 
that institutional monitoring through voice is more important than the threat of exit. More 
importantly, unlike all of the above studies, we also examine how acquirers’ sto ck liquidity 
affects the method of payment and how firms act proactively to manage stock liquidity prior to 
M&As in anticipation of the impact of stock liquidity on M&As. Moreover, we are among the 
first to address the potential endogeneity concerns by exp loiting an exogenous shock to stock 
liquidity due to Russell index reconstitution.  
      The study also improves our understanding of the determinants of M&A financing decisions. 
The literature has examined acquisition payment choice based on adverse sele ction, corporate 
                                                           
8 Fuller, Netter, and Stegemoller (2002) posit that the better market reactions to acquisitions of private and subsidiary 
targets than to acquisitions of public targets may be due to such a liquidity discount to private and subsidiary targets.   

=== PAGE 11 ===
9 
 
control, and financial capacity. 9 As per this literature, factors that bidders consider include debt 
capacity when financing with cash, loss of corporate control from ownership dilution, the 
informational opaqueness of target assets, and w hether they perceive their stock as being 
overvalued when financing with stock. For targets, uncertainty with acquirers’ growth 
opportunities and valuations as well as the tax liability deference benefits with stock payment are 
among the main consideration s when deciding whether to accept stock financing. The listing 
status of targets is often used as a proxy for the liquidity needs of target shareholders in the 
examination of their cash preference (e.g., Faccio and Masulis, 2005). But there is little known  
about how acquirers’ stock liquidity may affect corporate M&A activity and acquisition payment 
choice.     
      We also contribute to the literature in understanding acquirers’ behavior prior to acquisitions. 
The literature has shown that, in order to in crease their stock price prior to making stock 
acquisitions, acquirers tend to manage earnings up (Erickson and Wang, 1999; Louis, 2004), 
disclose good news or withhold bad news (Ge and Lennox, 2011), or manipulate financial media 
coverage (Ahern and Sosyura, 2014). We find that firms are likely to take more direct actions that 
improve stock liquidity prior to a stock acquisition. 
      Finally, our paper joins several other recent studies that use the annual Russell index 
reconstitution to analyze institutional ownership and its impact on corporate decisions and 
governance (e.g., Schmidt, 2012; Lu, 2013; Crane, Michenaud, and Weston, 2014; Mullins, 2014; 
Boone and White, 2015; Fich, Harford, and Tran, 2015; Appel, Gormley, and Keim, 2016b and 
2016c). Our study differs in that it examines the impact of Russell index reconstitution on firms’ 
acquisition decisions through its effect on stock  liquidity. Chang, Hong, and Liskovich (2015) 
show a significant impact of index assignment in the end of May on constituent stocks’ liquidity 
                                                           
9 There is a large literature on acquisition payment  method (e.g., Hansen, 1987; Travlos, 1987; Stulz, 1988; Fishman, 
1989; Amihud, Lev, and Travlos, 1990; Berkovitch and Narayanan, 1990; Eckbo, Giammarino, and Heinkel, 1990; 
Brown and Ryngaert, 1991; Martin, 1996; Ghosh and Ruland, 1998; Eckbo and Thorburn , 2000; and Fuller, Netter, 
and Stegemoller, 2002). See Faccio and Masulis (2005) for a literature review.  

=== PAGE 12 ===
10 
 
in June. We extend the examination period and find the liquidity impact persists during the 
reconstitution year.  
      The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 develops the testable predictions with 
a simple stylized model . Section 3 describes the data and the variables. Section 4 discusses the 
empirical methodology of the analysis. Main results of t he empirical analysis are in Section 5. 
Section 6 takes up issues about the robustness of the empirical analysis. Concluding remarks are 
presented in Section 7. 
2. Liquid Stock As Acquisition Currency: Model and Testable Predictions  
Liquidity is generally considered to be a desirable feature of assets (e.g., Easley and O’Hara, 
2003). Amihud and Mendelson (1980) argue that firms with illiquid stocks will tend to have a 
lower valuation and higher expected returns to compensate investors for anticipated trading costs. 
Over the last several years , a large literature has emerged, theoretical as well as empirical, that 
explores the relation between stock liquidity, trading between heterogeneously informed 
investors, incentive contracting, and governance. Among the better -known papers in the area are 
Grossman and Stiglitz (1980), Kyle (1985), Holmstrom and Tirole (1993), and Maug (1998).  
      Our focus in the paper is on the effect of stock liquidity on the take -over process. As we 
discuss, there are several channels through which stock liquidity could potentially affect mergers, 
the method of payment and the acquisition premium. We propose and test a particular liquidity 
channel that we refer to as the Acquisition Currency  hypothesis. We off er a simple model to 
sharpen intuition and to develop predictions that are tested in our empirical analysis. We also 
discuss alternative ways in which liquidity could impact the takeover process and elaborate on 
tests that allow us to distinguish Acquisiti on Currency  hypothesis from alternative liquidity 
channels.  
2.1. Liquidity Channels 

=== PAGE 13 ===
11 
 
Acquisition Currency Hypothesis:  Our hypothesis is basically that, for stock -for-stock 
acquisitions, target shareholders prefer stock that is more liquid. This preference derives from 
future trading costs that target shareholders expect to bear. We use a stylized model to argue that, 
on account of a preference for liquid stock, target shareholders would be willing to accept a lower 
acquisition premium from ac quirers with more liquid stock.  Ceteris paribus , we expect the 
acquisition premium to be decreasing in the liquidity of acquirer sto ck, while increasing in the 
liquidity of target stock. As a consequence, acquirers with liquid stock are more likely to engage 
in acquisitions and to pay in stock when they acquire. We also expect acquirers to take steps , 
such as stocks splits and enhanced  information flow to investors, in an effort to improve stock 
liquidity. Other predictions of our hypothesis are discussed in the context of our model developed 
below.   
Alternative Liquidity Channels  
As noted, there are alternative channels through which  liquidity could affect the merger process. 
We briefly outline two types of alternative channels. A channel that has received theoretical and 
empirical attention in the extant literature is the potential effect of liquidity on firm governance 
and incentive contracting. A second channel could operate through the effect of stock liquidly on 
acquirer valuation and reduction in asymmetric information.  
Governance: It is argued (e.g., Holmstrom and Tirole, 1993) that greater stock liquidity would 
lead to stock prices that are more accurate in terms of reflecting firm value and managerial 
performance. As a result managers could be offered stronger stock -based incentive contracts, 
thereby reducing agency problems and enhancing firm value.  Greater stock liquidity could also 
ease the formation of blockholdings and strengthen managerial incentives (e.g., Edmans, Fang, 
and Zur,  2013). The reduction in agency problems, whether through strong er managerial 
incentives or better monitoring, would be expected to improve the quality of the acquisitions 
made by the firm. A paper that finds support for greater stock liquidity enhancing the acquisition 
process through the governance channel is Roosenboom, Schlingemann, and Vasconcelos (2013). 

=== PAGE 14 ===
12 
 
      As we discuss  below, the acquisition currency channel has predictions that are distinct from 
those of the g overnance channel. For instance, the governance channel has no prediction s in 
terms of the effect of target liquidity on the acquisition premium or on the greater reliance on 
stock-for-stock acquisitions, as predicted by the acquisition currency hypothesis. Our empirical 
test allows us to distinguish between these two channels. 
Valuation: An alternative effect of liquidity could be through the improved price informativeness 
or reduction in information asymmetry that is expected to occur when the stock is more liquid. 
Hence, with greater liquidity target shareholders may be less c oncerned about being paid with 
overvalued stock. It has been  argued that stock overvaluation can sometimes motivate stock 
acquisitions (e.g., Shleifer and Vishny, 2003). 10 The higher valuation of firms with more liquid 
stock (Fang, Noe, and Tice, 2009) could also increase their incentive  to make acquisitions with 
stock.. We note that the empirical predictions differ between the channels: while the valuation 
channel could induce firms to rely more on stock -for-stock acquisitions, there is no prediction 
that the acquisition premium would be affected by the target firm’s stock liquidity, as is predicted 
by the acquisition currency hypothesis.  
2.2. A simple model of liquid stock as acquisition currency 
We develop a simple model to illustrate the potential ef fect of stock liquidity – of publicly traded 
acquirers and targets -- on the market for corporate control where acquirer stock is used as the 
acquisition currency (or medium of exchange). We begin by describing the timing of events in 
our single-period model. There are three salient dates 𝑡 = 0,1 & 2.  On date t=0, acquirer firm 𝐴 
decides on whether to acquire target firm 𝑇. If there is an acquisition, its terms are negotiated and 
the acquisition is completed on date 0 as well. As we explain below, the premium paid for the 
acquisition depends on a number of factors, including trading costs.  
                                                           
10 Other papers dealing with stock acquisitions with overvalued acquirer stock include Rhodes -Kropf, Robinson, and 
Viswanathan (2005), Ang and Cheng (2006), and Dong, Hirshleifer, Richardson, and Teoh (2006). 

=== PAGE 15 ===
13 
 
      Date 1 is an intermediate date on which the stock market is open and trading occurs. It is 
intended to capture the possibility of liquidity benefits to target shareholders from the merger.  
We assume that a fraction 𝜂 of the shareholders in 𝑇, 𝐴 expect to trade on date 1; they are fully 
cognizant of the effect of a merger on the cost of trading on date 1. The rest of the shareholders, 
fraction 1 − 𝜂,  do not e xpect to trade on date 1; they expect to maintain their holdings till the 
terminal date. Date 2 represents the terminal date on which any uncertainty regarding firm values 
is resolved.  All market participants are taken to be risk -neutral. There is no disc ounting of value 
between dates. 
      We next characterize the date 1 value and anticipated stock trading of 𝐴, 𝑇 firms as stand -
alone firms and as a merged entity. The terminal values of the shares of the two firms are 
stochastic and drawn from normal d istributions 𝑉𝑖̃ ∼ 𝑁(𝑉𝑖, 𝜎𝑉𝑖
2 ) for 𝑖 ∈ 𝑇, 𝐴. We assume a trading 
structure that is similar to that in Kyle (1985), in which order flow from liquidity (or noise) and 
informed traders is batched and cleared by a market maker. The market -clearing price is  set 
competitively and is equal to the expected value of the shares, conditional on aggregate order 
flow. Specifically, in our context, if the aggregate order flow to the market -maker is denoted 
𝑦1, then, following Kyle (1985), the market clearing price 𝑃1 will be set such that: 
𝑃𝑖1 = 𝐸(𝑉𝑖̃ |𝑦𝑖) =  𝑉𝑖 + 𝜆𝑖𝑦𝑖,    𝑖 ∈ 𝑇, 𝐴                                   (E-1) 
In equation (E -1) above, 𝑉𝑖 is the unconditional expected share value, while 𝜆𝑖 is the ‘liquidity 
parameter’ that represents the price impact  per unit of order flow. Kyle (1985) shows that in a 
single-period setting, if the order flow from liquidity traders is 𝑢𝑖 ∼ 𝑁(0, 𝜎𝑢
2) and there is a single 
informed trader with private information about security value 𝑣𝑖 ∼ 𝑁(𝑣𝑖, 𝜎𝑣𝑖
2 ),  then, in 
equilibrium, the liquidity parameter will be: 𝜆𝑖 =
𝜎𝑣𝑖
2𝜎𝑢
. The expression for 𝜆𝑖 indicates that trading 
costs decrease in the trading activity of liquidity traders (𝜎𝑢) and increase in the information 
advantage of the informed trader (𝜎𝑣𝑖). 

=== PAGE 16 ===
14 
 
      In adapting the Kyle model to our setting, the primary difference is that there are two types of 
liquidity traders internal (existing shareholders) and external (not current shareholders). The 
order flow submitted to the market maker is taken to come from the following sources:  
1. External liquidity traders: submit an aggregate order flow 𝑢𝑖̃ ∼ 𝑁(0, 𝜎𝑢𝑖
2 ), 𝑖 ∈ 𝑇, 𝐴.  A larger 
𝜎𝑢𝑖
2  will be associated with greater liquidity and lower trading costs. 
2. Internal liquidity traders : As noted, a fraction 𝜂 of firms’ existing shareholders expect to 
trade for liquidity reasons on date 1. We assume that these shareholders are equally likely to 
submit buy or sell orders of 1 share each. Taking the number of shareholders in each firm to 
be relatively large, the aggregate order flow from existing shareholders can be modeled as 
being normally distributed. For expositional simplicity , we assume that A, T have an equal 
number of N shares outstanding. Hence, the internal liquidity order flow from both T, A is 
distributed: 𝑆̃ ∼ 𝑁(0, 𝜂𝑁).  The variance 𝜂𝑁 follows since the variance of the trades from 
each shareholder is 1 and there are 𝜂𝑁 shareholders. 
3. There is an informed trader w ith private information about  the terminal firm value. To 
simplify expressions, we assume that uncertainty (or private information) about T,A 
terminal values is similar i.e., 𝜎𝑉𝐴
2 =  𝜎𝑉𝑇
2 =  𝜎𝑉
2.  
Given, the above set -up, the Kyle model gives us liquid ity parameters: 𝜆𝑖 =
𝜎𝑉
2√(𝜎𝑢𝑖
2 +𝜂𝑁)  for 𝑇, 𝐴. 
Note that the difference in liquidity between T,A is determined by noise trader variance 𝜎𝑢𝑖
2 . From 
the perspective of shareholders that expect to trade ±1 shares on date 1, their anticipated cost of 
trading is given by 𝜆𝑖.  
      We turn next to the merger decisions and the anticipated effect of the merger on trading costs. 
We assume that a factor affecting the merger decision is that it entails a non -pecuniary effort cost 
𝐶 (e.g., search for a suitable target) borne by the management of firm A prior to any merger 
negotiations (hence, cost 𝐶 is sunk and does not affect acquisition terms). Our assumption is that 

=== PAGE 17 ===
15 
 
for synergistic reasons, the merger of the two firms results in a non-stochastic value enhancement 
of 𝑉0, in addition to the pre -merger firm values 𝑉𝑇, 𝑉𝐴. Hence, the value of the merged firm on 
terminal date 2 will be: 𝑉𝑀 = 𝑉0 + 𝑉𝐴̃ + 𝑉𝑇̃ . We simplify expressions by assuming that the 
combination of A, T results in 2N shareholders and, as with stand-alone firms, a fraction 𝜂 expect 
to trade ±1 shares on date 1. Further, the variance of the aggregate external liquidity trading is: 
𝜎𝑢𝑀
2 =  𝜎𝑢𝑇
2 + 𝜎𝑢𝐴
2 . Finally, variance in firm value of the m erged firm (and scale of private 
information) is 2𝜎𝑉
2. Assuming a single informed trader, these assumptions imply, as above, that a 
Kyle-model liquidity parameter for the combined firm is given by: 
𝜆𝑀 = √2 𝜎𝑉
2√𝜎𝑢𝑇
2 +𝜎𝑢𝐴
2 +2𝑁
 =
 𝜎𝑉
2√1
2(𝜎𝑢𝑇
2 +𝜎𝑢𝐴
2 )+𝑁
.                                          (E-2) 
The above expression is intuitive, since in the expression for liquidity parameter 𝜆𝑀, the external 
liquidity trader variance is the average of the external liquidity trader variances of the stand -alone 
firms T, A. It follows that, if 𝜎𝑢𝐴
2 >  𝜎𝑢𝑇
2 , we will have 𝜆𝑇 > 𝜆𝑀 > 𝜆𝐴. 
      To obtain the premium that is paid, we assume that the boards of T, A seek to maximize the 
total wealth of their existing shareholders, taking account of the anticipate d trading costs of their 
respective shareholders. A fraction 𝜂 of existing shareholders expect to trade and anticipate a 
trading cost equal  to their stock’s liquidity parameter.  Hence, the average valuation of a firm’s 
shares, proportional to the total s hareholder wealth, is  𝑉𝑖
# = 𝑉𝑖 −  𝜂𝜆𝑖  for 𝑖 ∈ 𝑇, 𝐴.   The 
superscript # denotes average share value. The total surplus value that would be created by the 
merger relative to the stand-alone value of the firms is then given by:11  
𝛥 =  𝑉𝑀
# − 𝑉𝑇
# − 𝑉𝐴
# = 𝑉0 − 2𝜂𝜆𝑀 + 𝜂𝜆𝑇 + 𝜂𝜆𝐴                        (E-3) 
The liquidity cost associated with the merged firm are 2𝜂𝜆𝑀 because as firms T,A are merged, the 
number of shareholders are correspondingly aggregated. To economize on symbols, the Nash 
bargaining power of the acquirer and target is taken to be equal , i.e., the surplus that is created 
                                                           
11 Cost 𝐶, as indicated, is sunk and does not affect the surplus from the merger decision. 

=== PAGE 18 ===
16 
 
from the merger will be equally shared between T, A. Hence, the negotiated share price at which 
firm T is acquired will be given by: 
𝑃∗ = 𝑉𝑇 − 𝜂𝜆𝑇 +
1
2 (𝛥𝑉) =  𝑉𝑇 +
1
2 𝑉0 −
1
2 𝜂𝜆𝑇 +  
1
2 𝜂𝜆𝐴 − 𝜂𝜆𝑀                        (E-4) 
Hence, the premium that is paid for the target, in terms of the price paid by investors that expect 
to maintain their positions in the stock, can be expressed (from E-4) as: 
𝑃∗ − 𝑉𝑇 =
1
2 (𝑉0  − 𝜂𝜆𝑇 + 𝜂𝜆𝐴) − 𝜂𝜆𝑀                                            (E-5) 
It is clear that the acquisition premium is decreasing in the liquidity of the acquirer, while it is 
increasing in the target’s stock liquidity. 
      From the perspective of the acquirers, they will  be willing to spend resources 𝐶 (recall that 
this is non-pecuniary managerial effort) as long as: 
𝑉𝐴 − 𝜂𝜆𝐴 +
1
2 (𝛥𝑉) ≥ 𝐶.                                            (E-6) 
The above (weak) inequality implies that an increase in acquirer stock liquidity and  decrease in 
target stock liquidity (which increases the left -hand-side of (E -6)), makes it more likely that the 
inequality is satisfied and, hence, increases the likelihood of a stock-for-stock acquisition. 
      Our simple model above yields a number of empirical predictions that we test in our 
empirical analysis. We note that some of these predictions are specific to the  acquisition currency 
hypothesis and allow us to distinguish this channel from the two alternatives we have discussed.  
Prediction 1: Firms with more liquid stock are more likely to make acquisitions and have the 
acquisitions paid with stock, ceteris paribus. Also, the more liquid is acquirers’ stock relative to 
targets’, the more is paid in stock in the overall payment for the acquisitions.  
      Prediction 1 follows directly from equations (E -5) and (E -6) that, as discussed, imply that 
greater (lower) acquirer (target) stock liquidity lowers the premium paid and, thereby, increases 
the likelihood of a stock -for-stock acquisition. While w e have not explicitly considered 
acquisitions using cash, the above arguments imply that if a firm is cash constrained, the 

=== PAGE 19 ===
17 
 
likelihood of an acquisition and the fraction of purchase price paid in stock will also be increasing 
when the acquirer’s stock is relatively more liquid than that of the target.  
      Prediction 1 provides a test that separates the acquisition currency hypothesis from the 
alternatives. This is because our hypothesis predicts that the method of payment and the 
acquisition premium will depend on the liquidity of both the acquirer and the target. In other 
words, the preference for stock versus cash in acquisition payments will depend also on 
characteristics of target shareholders, which in turn affects the impact of acquirer’s stock liquidity 
on acquisition payment. The alternative governance and valuation hypotheses have no such 
predictions. 
      The investment horizons of shareholders in targets are expected to matter as well. Due to their 
relatively short horizon, short -term investors are likely to value acquirer’s stock liquidity more. 
Hence, we expect that, ceteris paribus, the sensitivity of st ock payment to the acquirer’s stock 
liquidity will increase in shareholding by short-term investors in the target.         
      Our next prediction follows from equation (E -5) that the acquisition premium is lower 
(higher) if the acquirer’s (target’s) stock is highly liquid. We note that this prediction applies only 
to stock-for-stock acquisitions: It does not apply to cash deals, because acquirers’ stock liquidity 
is irrelevant to target shareholders in cash deals. We can state the second testable prediction:  
      Prediction 2: In stock -financed acquisitions, the higher the liquidity of acquirers’ stock 
relative to that of targets’, the lower will be the acquisition premium paid. This is not the case in 
cash-financed acquisitions.   
      Knowing that target shareholders will prefer more liquid stock in a stock exchange deal, 
which can in turn put acquirers’ shareholders in a more favorable position in the exchange (e.g., 
paying lower premium), acquirers have incentive to increase the ir stock liquidity in anticipation 
of a stock deal in the near future. They can , for instance,  increase transparency by disclosing 
more information than what regulations mandate (e.g., providing more informative earnings 
guidance). They can also conduct stock splits to encourage more trading by uninformed investors. 

=== PAGE 20 ===
18 
 
Market makers can thus provide liquidity services at lower cost, which would result in higher 
propensity of trading and increase in liquidity. With a higher level of trading, the stock price can  
become more informative if the greater presence of uninformed trading attracts more trading 
from informed investors (Kyle, 1985).  
      The extant literature provides evidence that enhanced information disclosure and stock splits 
help to increase stock l iquidity. For instance, Coller and Yohn (1997) find that bid -ask spread 
reduces following management forecasts, while Lin, Singh, and Yu (2009) find declining 
incidence of no trading and lower liquidity risk following stock splits. 12 We thus have the third 
prediction: 
       Prediction 3: Acquirers in stock deals are more likely to take actions, such as providing 
earnings guidance and conducting stock splits, to increase their stock liquidity prior to stock 
deals. 
       It follows from our model that firms with more liquid stocks will be better positioned to 
make acquisitions and pay lower premiums than firms that are otherwise similar, but have less 
liquid stocks. Hence, the more liquid an acquirer’s stock is relative to the target’s, the more the 
gains to the acquirer’s shareholders in a stock deal, ceteris paribus. This leads to our fourth 
testable prediction: 
      Prediction 4: The more liquid the acquirer’s stock is relative to that of the target, the more 
the gains to acquirer shareholders in a stock deal, ceteris paribus.   
3. Data and Summary Statistics 
3.1. Data and sample 
                                                           
12 Several other papers provide related evidence. Balakrishnan, Billings, Kelly, and Ljungqvist (2014) show  that 
firms respond to an exogenous loss of public information by providing more timely and informative earnings 
guidance, which results in an improvement in liquidity. Also, Muscarella and Vetsuypens (1996) study splits of 
American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) that are not associated with splits in their home -country stock, and argue that 
the positive announcement return of stock splits reflect the increase in liquidity.  

=== PAGE 21 ===
19 
 
We obtain our data on mergers and acquisitions from  Thomson One Securities Data 
Corporation’s (SDC) U.S. Mergers and Acquisitions database. We start with all M&As  that 
occurred between January 1, 1985 and December 31, 2012. We then impose the following 
selection criteria in reaching the final sample of 4966  deals: (1) the acquirer is publicly listed and 
has accounting and financial information in Compustat and CRSP , (2) the acquirer is acquiring 
more than 50% of the target, (3) the target is either a public or a private firm, (4) the deal value is 
at least $50 million, and (5) information on deal payment method and status, acquirers’ 
characteristics (to be discussed  below), and target characteristics (for public targets) is available. 
We exclude subsidiary targets because the payment of acquisitions of subsidiary targets is mostly 
in cash and, thus, acquirer’s stock liquidity is less likely to play a significant role  in the 
acquisition.  
      For tests that involve publicly -listed firms, we require data on a sample firm’s main 
characteristics to be available in Compustat/CRSP in order for the firm to be included in the 
sample. These characteristics include three meas ures of stock liquidity, total assets, market -to-
book ratio, leverage, asset tangibility, stock return, and return volatility. The final sample consists 
of 13,899 firms and 118,229 firm-years for the period of 1984-2012.13    
      In analyses involving the annual Russell index reconstitution, we obtain data from Russell on 
the Russell 1000 and Russell 2000 indexes. We start the sample period in 1998 because data on 
Russell’s proprietary end -of-June float -adjusted market capitalization of index constituents are 
available only from then. The sample ends in 2006 because Russell implemented a new 
methodology in index assignment that mitigates index turnover but also makes index assignment 
                                                           
13 We start the sample one year earlier than the M&A sample starting year, because our te sts involve the examination 
of the impact of a firm’s lagged stock liquidity on its acquisition decision.  

=== PAGE 22 ===
20 
 
not dependent solely on end -of-May market capitalization, which would inva lidate the use of 
Russell index assignment as an instrument for stock liquidity (more details follow in Section 4).14       
3.2. Summary statistics 
We use three different measures of stock liquidity that are common in the literature: Amihud’s 
(2002) illiquidity ratio, bid-ask spread, and share turnover. Major M&A deal characteristics such 
as method of payment and deal premium are constructed following the convention in the 
literature. We also use a set of control variables that have been shown in the literature t o affect a 
firm’s acquisition decisions, method of payment, and deal premium. Details on definitions of all 
variables can be seen in the Appendix A. To reduce the impact of outliers, we follow the 
literature and winsorize all continuous variables at the 1st and 99th percentiles.   
Table 1 reports summary statistics of key firm and deal characteristics for sample firms. Panel 
A presents simple statistics of sample firms’ characteristics. The average (median) Amihud’s 
Illiquidity ratio is -4.79 ( -4.63), while  the average (median) bid -ask spread is 4.19 (3.97). The 
average share turnover is 63.6%. Acquisitions occur in about 10% of the firm -years, while 
slightly less than half of them are paid in stock. Panel B presents characteristics of acquirers of 
both publ ic and private targets across a total of 4,966 deals. Consistent with Prediction 1 , 
acquirers have higher stock liquidity than average Compustat -CRSP firms (reported in Panel A) 
for all three measures of liquidity, and their differences in both means and medians are 
statistically significant (results of statistical tests are untabulated). Also, acquirers have higher 
prior-year industry -adjusted st ock returns and market -to-book ratios, but lower stock return 
volatility than average Compustat-CRSP firms.  
Panel C reports characteristics of public targets in the 2,501 deals. On average, public targets 
appear to have lower liquidity, but significantly higher market -to-book ratios, than acquirers. 
                                                           
14 Results of our main sample analyses (not limited to this Russell sample) in this subperiod 1998 -2006 also hold, 
and are available upon request. 

=== PAGE 23 ===
21 
 
Panel D presents deal characteristics for all deals involving public targets. In an average deal, 
over 60% of the payment is in stock and the acquirer pays a premium of 25.9% over the target’s 
stock price as of  two days prior to the deal announcement. The average (median) three -day 
announcement abnormal returns for acquirers are -2.3% ( -1.7%). 15% of the deals are tender 
offers, and in 7.7% of the deals, there are competing bidders involved.     
4. Empirical strategy 
4.1. Empirical design and specification 
To test Prediction 1  about the effect of stock liquidity on the likelihood of firms making 
acquisitions and the likelihood of acquisitions being paid in stock, we use the sample of all 
Compustat-CRSP firms and es timate the following logit regression of a firm’s acquisition 
decision on its stock liquidity: 
 𝑌𝑖𝑡 = 𝛼0 + 𝛼1 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡−1 +  𝛼2 𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑠𝑖𝑡−1 +  𝜇𝑡 + 𝜀𝑖𝑡 .                                 (1) 
𝑌𝑖𝑡 is an indicator variable that equals one if firm i makes an acquisition (stock acquisition) in 
year t and zero otherwise; 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡−1  is firm i’s stock liquidity as of year t–1; and 
𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑠𝑖𝑡−1 include a set of firm i characteristics as of year t–1, such as Leverage,  Leverage, 
PPE/Asset, Market-to-Book, Ind_stock_return, Firm Size , and Volatility. Definitions of these 
variables are provided in Appendix A. The first three variables capture a firm’s ability to issue 
debt in financin g a potential acquisition and the next two variables indicate the valuation  and 
performance of the firm. We use a firm’s stock volatility, Volatility, to capture its information 
environment that may affect the firm’s acquisition decision. To our main interest, we expect a 
significantly positive coefficient on 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖,𝑡−1  for both of the dependent variables – the 
acquisition indicator and the stock acquisition indicator. As a robustness check, we also estimate 

=== PAGE 24 ===
22 
 
Equation (1) using a linear probability model with firm fixed effects. 15 All the findings continue 
to hold. For brevity, we leave them unreported. 
      To test the other implication o f Prediction 1 regarding the effect of liquidity on the extent to 
which stock is used to pay for an acquisition, we focus on the sample of acquisitions that involve 
public targets and estimate regressions based on the following Tobit model: 
  𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘𝑝𝑎𝑦𝑖𝑡 = 𝛽0 +  𝛽1 𝑅𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑒 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡−1 +  𝛽2 𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑠𝑖𝑡−1 +  𝜇𝑡 + 𝜀𝑖𝑡 .              (2) 
𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘𝑝𝑎𝑦𝑖𝑡 is the fraction of equity in the payment of the acquisition by firm i in year t; it takes a 
value between 0 and 1. 𝑅𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑒 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡−1  is the difference of stock liquidity between 
acquirer i and its target, both as of year t-1; and 𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑠𝑖𝑡−1 include the same set of variables as 
in Equation (1) and several additional variables that are meant to capture deal characteristics such 
as Ln(deal size), Relative Size, Cash/Deal, and Tender Offer. If the deal size is large, the target is 
large relative to the acquirer, or the acquirer has smal l cash holding relative to the deal size, it is 
more likely that stock swap is used. Stock financing is also more likely in tender offers (Martin, 
1996).  
      We focus on public targets due to the availability of data on their stock liquidity  and other 
characteristics. Our model suggests that target shareholders will take into account both acquirer’s 
liquidity and target’s liquidity when considering the form of acquisition payment. The coefficient 
𝛽1  is to  capture the preference for any incremental liqu idity that target shareholders expect to 
have as shareholders of the merged firm, relative to their status -quo liquidity. 16 We expect β 1 to 
be significantly positive; that is, the more liquid the acquirer’s stock is relative to the target’s , the 
more stock will be paid for the acquisition. Alternatively, we include acquirer’s and target’s 
liquidity separately in the regressions and expect a positive coefficient on acquirer’s liquidity and 
a negative coefficient on target’s liquidity. 
                                                           
15 Note that firm fixed effects cannot be applied to the logit model. 
16 A further discussion of this is in Section 6.1.  

=== PAGE 25 ===
23 
 
      Similarly, we examine the effect of the acquirer -target difference in stock liquidity on deal 
premium to test Prediction 2 using the same sample of acquisitions that involve public targets. In 
particular, we estimate an OLS regression using Equation (2) exc ept that the dependent variable 
is deal premium. Because the deal premium implication of Prediction 2 applies to stock deals but 
not cash deals, we estimate regressions separately for the two types of deals. In these regressions, 
we control for both acquir er’s and target’s characteristics as well as deal characteristics used in 
the tests of Prediction 1. We expect the coefficient 𝛽1 to be significantly negative for stock deals, 
but we expect no such relation for cash deals.  Alternatively, we include acquir er’s and target’s 
liquidity separately in the regressions and , for stock deals (but not in cash deals), we expect a 
negative coefficient on acquirer’s liquidity and a positive coefficient on target’s liquidity. 
 
      To test Prediction 3, we investigate whether potential acquirers exhibit a greater propensity to 
undertake liquidity-enhancing steps prior to making stock acquisitions. Our test is based on the 
following model specification: 
𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑒𝑛ℎ𝑎𝑛𝑐𝑒𝑖𝑡 = 𝛾0 +  𝛾1 𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘𝑎𝑐𝑞𝑖𝑡+1 +  𝛾2 𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑠𝑖𝑡 +  𝜇𝑡 + 𝜀𝑖𝑡.                        (3) 
𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑒𝑛ℎ𝑎𝑛𝑐𝑒𝑖𝑡 represents the liquidity -enhancing step s that acquirer i undertakes in year t. The 
first we consider is a stock split, which is defined as a dummy variable that  equals one if a stock 
split is conducted in year t and zero otherwise. We estimate the coefficients of Equation (3) using 
a logit model. The second action that we consider is the earnings guidance provided by the firm; 
in this case, the coefficients are e stimated using an OLS regression. We define the measures of 
earnings guidance in two ways: first as the natural logarithm of one plus the frequency of 
earnings guidance provided by the management in year t, and then as the difference in the 
frequency of ea rnings guidance provided by the management from year t-1 to t. For both 
measures based on earnings guidance, the sample period is from 1994 to 2012; this is governed 

=== PAGE 26 ===
24 
 
by the availability of data on earnings guidance from First Call.  𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘𝑎𝑐𝑞𝑖,𝑡+1 is a dummy that 
equals one if a stock acquisition is made by firm i in year t+1 and zero otherwise. We test 
Prediction 3 using the sample of all Compustat -CRSP firms. We expect the estimated coefficient 
𝛾1 on 𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘𝑎𝑐𝑞𝑖,𝑡+1 to be significantly positive.  
      Lastly, we test Prediction 4 using an OLS regression model based on equation (1), except that 
the dependent variable is the three -day [-1, 1] deal announcement cumulative abnormal returns 
(CARs) and the explanatory variable of interest is  𝑅𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑒 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡−1.17  Because we need to 
control for the effect of both acquirer and target characteristics, and because liquidity is relevant 
only in stock acquisitions, we conduct the test using the sample of stock acquisitions invol ving 
public targets. We estimate the three -day CARs using the CRSP equally weighted index and the 
market model, where the parameters for the market model are estimated over the ( –120, –30) day 
interval. We control for both acquirer’s and target’s character istics (described earlier) as well as 
other relevant deal characteristics. In particular, we add two additional controls of deal 
characteristics: Competing_Bid and Related Deal . Acquirers may pay higher premiums in 
competing bids as well as in diversification deals that are not related to the acquirer’s primary 
industry. We expect the estimated coefficient on the main variable of interest, 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡−1, to be 
significantly positive.  
      In all the regressions above, we include both year and 3 -digit SIC industry fixed effects to 
ensure that we identify the estimates using within -year and within -industry variations in firm 
decisions and deal characteristics. Robust standard errors are clustered at the industry level.        
4.2. Endogeneity of stock liquidity and identification strategy 
The above empirical design helps to establish a correl ation between liquidity and firms’ 
acquisition decisions as well as deal characteristics. However, stock liquidity is not exogenously 
                                                           
17 In unreported tests, we include acquirer’s and target’s liquidity separately in the regressions.  

=== PAGE 27 ===
25 
 
given. Indeed, we even hypothesize that firms may take deliberate actions to endogenously 
increase stock liquidity prior to making acquisitions. Also, failure to control for any omitted 
factor that is related to both liquidity and firms’ acquisition decisions  can result in a biased 
estimate of the effect of liquidity. To address this empirical challenge, we exploit an exogenous 
shock to firms’ stock liquidity that arises from the annual Russell 1000/2000 index reconstitution. 
We next discuss the empirical identification strategy in details. 
4.2.1. Russell index construction and stock liquidity 
Every year Russell ranks all exchange -listed U.S. common stocks  by their market capitalization 
that is calculated using their last traded price on the last trading day of May. 18 The largest 1000 
stocks are assigned into the Russell 1000 index, and the next 2000 stocks into the Russell 2000 
index, the combination of which forms the Russell 3000 index. Index reconstitution then takes 
place annually on the last Friday of June. 19 Except for certain circumstances, index constituents  
will remain in their respective indices  for the next full year (July 1 st till the end of next June) .20 
The fact that firms around the cutoff of Russell 1000/2000 exhibit a local continuity of their end-
of-May market cap holds true until the 2007 reconstitution when Russell initiated  a “banding” 
policy to mitigate index turnover. Under the new policy, stocks would switch from their index 
only if their market capitalization  deviates significantly enough from the cutoff threshold. 21 It is 
thus likely that some firms in Russell 2000 (Russell 1000) may have larger (smaller) end-of-May 
market cap than the 1000 cutoff threshold since 2007.  
      Russell determines each stock’s weight in an index upon reconstitution using its proprietary 
float-adjusted market cap as of the end of June. The float-adjustment accounts for a stock’s actual 
                                                           
18 Stocks with a price below $1 or a market cap lower than $30 million are excluded. ADRs, preferred stocks, rights, 
warrants, trust receipts, partnerships, and closed-end mutual funds are also excluded.  
19 It is unlikely that firms can have perfect control over the index assignment by taking actions that affect their 
market capitalizations, because it is the relative rank, rather than the absolute value of market cap, that matters.     
20 During the next twelve months following reconstitution, stocks are dele ted from an index if the related firms have 
Chapter 7 bankruptcy filings, get delisted, or are acquired, while firms that have had an initial public offering or been 
spun-off are added into an index based on the market capitalization break of the most rece nt reconstitution.    
21 See more details in Russell Investments (2015).  

=== PAGE 28 ===
26 
 
shares available for the public to trade; this excludes s hares held by a blockholder, an employee 
stock ownership plan that owns more than 10% of the shares outstanding, shares owned by 
government or another company in a Russell index, and shares locked up in an IPO. As such, the 
actual ranking within an index ( based on index weights) can be different from the ranking based 
on the end-of-May total market cap that determines the index assignment.  
      Since Russell indices are value-weighted, we expect to observe a large discontinuity of index 
weights around the  1000 cutoff point in that firms in the bottom of Russell 1000 will be given 
smallest weights while firms in the top of Russell 2000 will be given largest weights. This is 
confirmed in Figure 1 , where we plot the average inde x weights for 1000 firms on either side of 
the 1000 cutoff point during the sample period.  For example, the average index weight for the 
top ten firms in Russell 2000 is 0.2%, while that for the bottom ten firms in Russell 1000 is 
0.003%. The difference in index weights persists ove r a wider range of stocks around the 1000 
cutoff point, although this difference declines in magnitude. 
       The large difference in index weights for firms around the 1000 cutoff threshold has 
significant implication for their stock liquidity. In partic ular, we expect to see substantially 
greater liquidity in stocks in the top of Russell 2000 than in stocks in the bottom of Russell 1000. 
First, institutional trading in response to fund flows that arises from indexing and benchmarking 
strategies improves stock liquidity, and the intensity of such  trading activity is positively related 
to index weights . Chang, Hong, and Liskovich (2015) document the total assets benchmarked, 
both passively and actively, for Russell 1000 and Russell 2000 (Table 1, pp. 223).  The amount of 
assets passively tracking Russell 1000 is around 2 to 3.5 times of that tracking Russell 2000 (e.g., 
$175.9 billion vs. $51.7 billion in 2007). Given the significantly larger market cap of Russell 
1000 (about 9 times of that of Russell 2000) , there is disproportionally more money tracking 
Russell 2000. Moreover, b ecause passive funds seek to minimize their tracking errors , their 
holding weights will closely mimic the index weights of the respective index. To the extent that 

=== PAGE 29 ===
27 
 
the reduction of t racking error may be lower than the transaction costs of trading stocks with the 
smallest index weights and exclusion of stocks with smallest index weights will have little impact 
on fund performance (Roll, 1992; Frino and Gallagher , 2001), passive funds will match their 
portfolio weights more closely for stocks at the top of the index and assign even lower weights to 
stocks at the bottom of the index.  Therefore, there shall be significantly more trading of stocks at 
the top of Russell 2000 than of stock s at the bottom of Russell 1000 by passive funds in response 
to fund flows. 
      The more active trading in stocks at the top of Russell 2000 is further strengthened by the 
more popular active benchmarking on Russell 2000. The total number of products and dollar 
amount benchmarked to Russell 2000 are substantially higher  than those benchmarked to Russell 
1000. For example, in 2007, there were  511 vs. 52 products and $291.4 billion vs. $172.7 billion 
benchmarked to Russell 2000 and Russell 1000, respectively.  Overall, due to institutional 
tracking and benc hmarking strategies, there is greater trading demand for stocks at the top of 
Russell 2000 than stocks at the bottom of Russell 1000. 
      Second, a recent literature shows that assignment to the top of Russell 2000 is associated with 
an increase in passive institutional ownership relative to assignment to the bottom of Russell 
1000 (e.g., Appel, Gormley, and Keim, 2016c ). The greater presence of institution al ownership 
can induce firms to disclose more information and increase transparency (Boone and White, 
2015), which in turn helps to improve a stock’s trading environment and its liquidi ty, as 
discussed above.  
      Figure 2 illustrates the impact of Russ ell index assignment on the liquidity of constituent 
stocks. The sample includes the top 300 stocks of Russell 2000 and the bottom 300 stocks of 
Russell 1000 for each year during 1998-2006, as determined by Russell’s proprietary end-of-June 
market capitalization. We sort these stocks based on their end -of-May market capitalization, as 
provided in CRSP, and then plot their average end-of-September (one quarter following the index 

=== PAGE 30 ===
28 
 
reconstitution in June) liquidity  by this stock ranking.  Clearly, for all of the three liquidity 
measures, there is a jump in stock liquidity around the midway point from the bottom 300 stocks 
of Russell 1000 to the top 300 stocks of Russell 2000 . In results that are not shown for brevity, 
we find similar jumps in liquidity during the two-quarter and three-quarter time periods following 
index reconstitution.22 It suggests that the jump in liquidity for firms at the top of Russell 2000 is 
persistent over time in the year following reconstitution.   
4.2.2. Identification strategy and empirical specifications 
As discussed earlier, Russell computes index portfolio weights using stocks’ end -of-June market 
capitalizations that are float -adjusted, which is specifically meant to account for stock liquidity 
(shares not publicly tradable ar e exclud ed in the float adjustment). The best  empirical 
identification thus cannot ideally utilize the difference in liquidity for a narrow bandwidth of 
stocks with the smallest portfolio weights in the Russell 1000 and stocks with the largest portfolio 
weights in the Russell 2000, because the difference in liquidity is likely to be not exogenous (it is 
affected by Russell’s float adjustment). Instead, we rank stocks based on their end-of-May market 
capitalization, as reported in CRSP, and select the sample using firms ranked 701st through 1300th 
for each year of the sample. 23  We then  instrument for stock liquidity with an indicator of a 
stock’s rank between 1001 st and 1300 th (labeled as “ R2000”) in a given year, and  identify the 
impact of the instrumented stock liquidity on firm acquisition decisions. This instrument variable 
approach follows that adopted in Appel, Gormley, and Keim (2016c, see their section 7.3 on page 
                                                           
22 Our finding is not affected if we extend the examination period to the end of next June. However, we choose not 
do so because stock liquidity in June may be affected by the expected  change in the new index assignment, which is 
based on the end-of-May market cap (see Chang, Hong, and Liskovich (2015)).   
23 In robustness checks, however, we find that our results continue to hold if we select the sample to be the bottom 
300 stocks with the smallest index weights in the Russell 1000 and the top 300 stocks with the largest index weights 
in the Russell 2000, and control for float -adjusted end-of-June market capitalization in the regressions. More details 
are in Section 6.3.  

=== PAGE 31 ===
29 
 
133 and Appendix Table 9 on page 138 ) in examining the effect of passive institutional 
ownership on corporate governance.24,25  
      In the first stage, we regress a firm’s stock liquidity on the instrument variable, R2000, and a 
set of control variables based on the following specification: 
                    𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡 = 𝛼 +  𝛽 𝑅2000𝑖𝑡 + ∑ 𝛾𝑛
𝑁
𝑛=1  (𝐿𝑛(𝑀𝑎𝑦 𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑐𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡)𝑛 +
                                               𝜌 𝐿𝑛(𝐽𝑢𝑛𝑒 𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑡 𝑎𝑑𝑗.  𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑚𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡 +  𝜇𝑡 + 𝜀𝑖𝑡.                            (4) 
𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡 is firm i’s stock liquidity as of the end of September  in year t, where year t is the 
index reconstitution year. 26  𝑅2000𝑖𝑡 is an indicator variable that equals one if firm i’s end-of-
May market capitalization, as reported in CRSP, is ranked between 1001st through 1300th in year t 
and zero  otherwise.  𝐿𝑛(𝑀𝑎𝑦 𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑐𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡 is the natural logarithm of firm i’s end -of-May 
market capitalization in year t.  𝐿𝑛(𝐽𝑢𝑛𝑒 𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑡 𝑎𝑑𝑗. 𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑐𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡  is the natural logarithm of 
firm i’s float-adjusted end-of-June market capitalization in year t, as provided by Russell. 
      We control for the end -of-May market capitalization because it determines index assignment 
and can also affect stock liquidity for reasons other than index assignment. As robustness checks, 
we use polynomials of different orders to capture the  impact of market capitalization.  We use 
CRSP end-of-May market capitalization as i n Appel, Gormley, and Keim (2016c)  because 
Russell does not provide its proprietary end -of-May market capitalization. They show (in their 
Figure 3) that there is a large jump in the probability of a firm being assigned to Russell 2000 
around the cutoff threshold based on CRSP end -of-May market capitalization. Chang, Hong, and 
Liskovich (2015) find a jump in index weights around the same cutoff thresh old (shown in their 
Figure 2) .  We also control for  the end-of-June float -adjusted market capitalization  because it 
directly affects liquidity through the channel of index weights. We include year fixed effect, 𝜇𝑡, to 
ensure that the variation in stock liquidity is not due to the increasing trend of liquidity that is 
                                                           
24 We are grateful to Todd Gormley for suggesting this approach to us. 
25 See also Appel, Gormley, and Keim (2016a, 2016b) for a discussion of this IV approach using Russell index 
assignment.  
26 The results are robust to the use of stock liquidity as of a later time point during the period of July 1 st to the end of 
next May following the reconstitution in the end of June.  

=== PAGE 32 ===
30 
 
possibly related to a secular increase in institutional ownership and trading as suggested in 
Chordia, Roll, and Subrahmanyam (2011). The standard errors are clustered at the firm level.  
      In the second stage, we estimate the following:  
                              𝑌𝑖𝑡 = 𝜏 +  𝜃 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡̂ + ∑ 𝜎𝑛
𝑁
𝑛=1  (𝐿𝑛(𝑀𝑎𝑦 𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑐𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡)𝑛 +
                                        𝜑 𝐿𝑛(𝐽𝑢𝑛𝑒 𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑡 𝑎𝑑𝑗.  𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑚𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡 +  𝜇𝑡 + 𝜔𝑖𝑡.                                        (5) 
where 𝑌𝑖𝑡 is the outcome variable s pertaining to acquisition decisions and deal characteristics  for 
firm i in the period of July 1 st in year t to the end of  next May, and 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡̂  is the 
instrumented liquidity of firm i that is estimated in the first stage. In this IV estimation, w e use a 
bandwidth of 300 firms around the 1000th firm midway point (300 on each side for the sample of 
firms ranked 701st through 1300 th) and the first -order polynomial (N=1) . In additional tests, we 
show that our findings are robust to variations in both the number of firms taken in the bandwidth 
(e.g., 400) and the polynomial order N (e.g., 1, 2, or 3).  
      Our IV estimation  relies on the  relevance condition that inclusion in the right bandwidth of 
firms around the 1000 th firm midway point is associated with higher stock liquidity, which we 
will verify i n the first stage estimation . Further,  the critical exclusion assumption  for IV 
estimation is  that the outcome variables regarding firms’ acquisition decisions and deal 
characteristics are unrelated to the inclusion in the right bandwidth of firms , except through its 
impact on stock liquidity. Since sample firms around the midway point  are similar in firm 
fundamentals except for the small difference in market capitalization, this exclusion restriction 
seems to be satisfied too once we control for market capitalization.  
      Table 2  presents the results of t he first stage estimation. They  confirm the validity of the  
relevance condition  for the IV estimation  that stock liquidity is related to R2000. Using a 
bandwidth of 300 firms around the midway point  and a first -order polynomial on 
𝐿𝑛(𝑀𝑎𝑦 𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑐𝑎𝑝), we find that firms included in the right bandwidth  exhibit significantly 

=== PAGE 33 ===
31 
 
higher stock liquidity than firms in the left bandwidth . The difference is statistically significant 
for all three measures of liquidity. In addit ional checks w ith results tabulated in Table B .1 of 
Appendix B, the relation between liquidity and R2000 is shown to be robust to using higher order 
polynomials and a wider bandwidth of firms.  
      In a related study, Boone and White (2015) also examine the liquidity implication of the 
annual Russell index reconstitution. However, our empirical approach differs  from theirs in that, 
unlike them, we do not take the regression discontinuity approa ch (RDD) using the actual 
rankings within each index that are assigned by Russell as the forcing variable. One critical 
identification assumption of RDD is local continuity, such that potential outcomes, conditional on 
the forcing variable, are continuous at threshold of the forcing variable (Angrist and Pischke, 
2009; Lee and Lemieux, 20 09; Roberts and Whited, 2013). The actual rankings are calculated 
based on Russell’s proprietary float -adjusted market cap (rather than on end -of-May market cap) 
after the index assignment is determined. Thus, there will be a discontinuity of float -adjusted 
market cap and other variables at the threshold, which violates the local continuity assumption of 
RDD (see also Appel, Gormley, and Keim (2016a) for a related discussion). 
5. Main Empirical Results 
In this section, we discuss results of our empirical tests. We test our predictions regarding the 
effect of liquidity on firms’ acquisition decisions and deal premiums. Where endogeneity of stock 
liquidity may be a concern, we pro vide results for the full sample, followed by instrumental 
variable (IV) regression estimates obtained using the Russell Index sample (henceforth, Russell -
sample).     
5.1. Acquisitions and Acquirer’s Stock Liquidity 
5.1.1. The decision to acquire and acquire with stock payment 

=== PAGE 34 ===
32 
 
Panel A of Table 3 presents the results obtained from estimating Equation (1) in the full sample. 
Here, the dependent variable is a dummy indicating the firm’s decision to make an acquisition 
and the independent variable of interest is a firm ’s stock liquidity. The estimated coefficients on 
all three proxies for stock liquidity have the predicted positive sign and are statistically significant 
at 1% level. This suggests that, ceteris paribus, firms are more likely to make acquisitions when 
their stock liquidity is higher. In accordance with the odds ratios obtained from the logistic 
regressions, the odds of acquisition are 3.98 and 2.43 times higher after a one -standard-deviation 
decrease in Amihud’s illiquidity ratio and bid -ask spread, respec tively. 27 Also, the odds of 
acquisition increase by 0.95 times following a one -standard-deviation increase in share 
turnover. 28  Thus, the impact of stock liquidity on the odds of making an acquisition is 
economically significant. We also find that the likeli hood of acquisition is positively related to 
prior-year industry-adjusted stock returns and negatively related to change in leverage, suggesting 
that firms with better stock performance and firms with a decline in leverage are more likely to 
make acquisitions.  
      Panel B of Table 3 presents regression results from the second -stage of the IV estimation – 
represented by Equation (5) – within the Russell -sample. The estimated coefficients on the 
instrumented liquidity measures are all positive and statisti cally significant at 1% level, 
confirming the findings in Panel A. For brevity, we do not report the coefficients on all the 
control variables. As shown in Table B.2 of Appendix B, the results are robust within a wider 
bandwidth of firms (400) and to the u se of higher-order (2nd and 3rd) polynomials. These findings 
suggest that the effect of stock liquidity on a firm’s acquisition decision is likely to be causal.  
      Next, we repeat the analysis by estimating Equations (1) and (5), except that the depend ent 
variable is a dummy variable that equals one for stock acquisitions. We present the full -sample 
results in Panel A of Table 4. Consistent with our prediction, a firm’s likelihood of making a 
                                                           
27 The unconditional odds are 1.30 and 1.72, respectively.  
28 The unconditional odds are 1.26. 

=== PAGE 35 ===
33 
 
stock acquisition increases with its stock liquidity. Specifi cally, the estimated coefficients on 
stock liquidity measures are all positive and statistically significant at 1% level. Compared with 
its effect on the likelihood of acquisition (as reported in Table 3), the economic impact of stock 
liquidity on the like lihood of stock acquisition is even greater. The odds of stock acquisition are 
4.19 and 2.57 times higher for a one-standard-deviation decrease in Amihud’s illiquidity ratio and 
bid-ask spread, respectively, and are 0.95 times higher following a one -standard-deviation 
increase in share turnover. We also find that the likelihood of a stock acquisition is significantly 
related to certain firm characteristics. A firm is more likely to make stock acquisitions when its 
prior-year industry-adjusted stock returns and market-to-book ratio are higher, or when its assets 
are less tangible.  
      Panel B of Table 4 reports the Russell -sample IV regression results, which echo those 
reported in Panel A for the full sample. The coefficients on the instrumented liquidity measures 
are positive and statistically significant at 1% level across the three columns. Results in Table B.3 
of Appendix B show that the finding is unaffected using a wider bandwidth of firms or including 
2nd and 3rd-order polynomials. Overall, our findings suggest that firms with more liquid stock are 
more likely to pay for acquisitions with stock.  
      The beneficial role of stock liquidity should be more pronounced in firms that are financially 
constrained and, thus, have less access to cash to pay f or acquisitions. As such, we examine 
whether the effect of stock liquidity on the decision to make stock acquisitions is stronger in 
firms that are financially constrained. We follow Kaplan and Zingales (1997) in constructing KZ 
index as a measure of finan cial constraints for each firm -year, and then augment Equation (1) by 
interacting 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡−1 with 𝐾𝑍𝑖,𝑡−1. We predict a positive coefficient on the interaction term, 
indicating a stronger relation between stock liquidity and the likelihood of stock acquisition for 
financially-constrained firms. The regression results, reported in Table 5, are consistent with this 
prediction. The estimated coefficient on the interaction term is positive and statistically 

=== PAGE 36 ===
34 
 
significant for the three liquidity measures, while the coefficients on the liquidity measures 
themselves remain strongly positive. This finding provides furth er support for our prediction 
about the beneficial role of stock liquidity in acquisitions.  
5.1.2. Fraction of acquisition payment in stock 
Next, we estimate Equation ( 2) and analyze the fraction of payment for an acquisition that is 
made in stock. The results f rom this analysis are presented in Table 6. The baseline results are in 
Panel A, which shows that stock liquidity has a significant positive effect on the fraction of 
acquisition payment made in stock. The dependent variable is the fraction of acquisition payment 
made in stock and the independent variable of interest is Relative Liquidity, which is the simple 
difference between the stock liquidity of the acquirer and the target. The estimated coefficient on 
Relative Liquidity is positive and statistically s ignificant at 1% level. The more liquid the 
acquirer’s stock is relative to the target’s, the higher is the fraction of acquisition payment made 
in stock. For example, in column (1), a one -standard-deviation increase in Relative Liquidity is 
associated with a 17% increase from the average fraction of payment that is made in stock. In 
tests left unreported, we find that the results in Table 6 are robust if we also include both the 
acquirer’s and the target’s liquidity separately as explanatory variables. In particular, the 
coefficient on the acquirer’s liquidity is significantly positive and the coefficient on the target’s 
liquidity is significantly negative. 29 Moreover, we find that the fraction of payment in stock is 
also highly related with both firm and de al characteristics. For example, acquirers with higher 
return run-up, more volatile stock returns, lower asset tangibility, higher leverage, or less cash 
holding relative to the deal size pay more in stock. Also, more stock is paid in larger deals and 
when the target is large in size relative to the acquirer.        
                                                           
29 The literature has established that most acquisitions mad e by private acquirers are paid with cash. For example, in 
their sample of M&As involving public targets during 1987 -2007, Massa and Xu (2013) find that of all transactions 
involving a private (public) acquirer, 71% (35%) are paid for with cash, 2% (29%) w ith stock, and the rest with a 
mixture of both. Although we do not examine cases involving private acquirers due to the lack of data on their 
characteristics, this empirical regularity seems to be consistent with our finding that target shareholders tend t o prefer 
cash over stock when acquirers’ stock is “extremely illiquid” for private acquirers.  

=== PAGE 37 ===
35 
 
      In Panel B of Table 6, we present the IV regression results on the Russell -sample, with 
instrumented liquidity of the acquirer as the main explanatory variable  and the target’s liquidity  
as an additional control. The findings are consistent with those in the full sample, suggesting that 
acquirers with more liquid stock tend to pay for acquisitions more in stock, ceteris paribus. In 
particular, the estimated coefficient on instrumented acqui rer’s liquidity measures is positive 
across all three specifications and statistically significant at least at the 5% level. In Table B.4 of 
Appendix B, we show that the results are robust to using a wider bandwidth of firms and to 
including higher order polynomials.   
5.1.3. The effect of target shareholder characteristics  
In this section, we examine the effect of target shareholder characteristics – such as ownership by 
blockholders and the investment horizon of investors – on the relation between payment for t he 
acquisition in stock and Relative Liquidity. Specifically, in Panel C of Table 6, we interact 
Relative Liquidity with Blockholder, which is the number of blockholders  with 5% or more stock 
ownership in the target in the quarter prior to deal announcement. The coefficients on Relative 
Liquidity remain significantly positive with a greater economic magnitude than those in Panel A, 
suggesting that the effect of the acquir er’s stock liquidity (relative to the target’s) on stock 
payment is greater for targets with no blockholders ( Blockholder = 0). The coefficients on the 
interaction term Relative Liquidity x Blockholder are negative and statistically significant at the 
1% level in columns (1) and (2). The results indicate that the impact of the acquirer’s relative 
stock liquidity on stock payment for the acquisition becomes weaker when there are more 
blockholders in the target. A possible reason is that blockholders tend to be longer-term investors: 
following the logic of our model, since blockholders did not expect to exit the firm and bear 
trading costs, they would attach little value to acquirer stock liquidity. This would make cash 
offer more likely. Economically, each ad ditional blockholder in the target reduces the sensitivity 

=== PAGE 38 ===
36 
 
of stock-payment to Relative Liquidity by 12%-19% (depending on the liquidity measure), when 
compared with the benchmark case of no blockholders in the target.  
      In Panel D of Table 6, we anal yze the effect of investor horizon on the sensitivity of stock -
payment to Relative Liquidity. We interact Relative Liquidity with Short Horizon. Short Horizon 
is defined as the ratio of target’s equity held by short -term institutional investors to that hel d by 
long-term institutional investors in the quarter prior to the announcement date. Our classification 
of institutional investors into short- and long-term investors follows Yan and Zhang (2009) and is 
based on their portfolio turnover over the past four  quarters. The estimated coefficients on 
Relative Liquidity remain positive and statistically significant at the 1% level. Moreover, the 
coefficients on the interaction term between Relative Liquidity and Short Horizon are all positive 
and significant at t he 1% level. This is consistent with our prediction that the impact of the 
acquirer’s relative liquidity on stock payment increases in the presence of short -term institutional 
shareholders in the target, who value liquidity more due to their relatively fre quent trading needs. 
Estimated coefficients on other variables in both Panels C and D are consistent with those in 
Panel A, and thus left unreported for brevity. 
5.2. Acquisition Premium and Acquirer’s Stock Liquidity 
In this subsection, we present our analysis of the premium paid by the acquirer. As per our 
Prediction 2, if the acquirer’s stock liquidity is higher relative to that of the target, then the 
premium paid would be lower. Panel A of Table 7 presents results that are consistent with this 
prediction. In the subsample of stock acquisitions, the estimated coefficient on Relative Liquidity 
is negative and statistically significant for the three liquidity measures. The more liquid acquirers’ 
stock is relative to targets’, the lower is the takeover premium paid to the target shareholders in a 
stock deal. In particular, the price premium is lower by 1.75% -4.25% (depending on liquidity 
measure) for a one -standard-deviation increase in Relative Liquidity. Note that the average 
premium is 25.9%, and thus the result is economically significant, ranging between 6.8% and 

=== PAGE 39 ===
37 
 
16.4% of the mean premium.  In tests left unreported, we include both the acquirer’s and the 
target’s liquidity separately as explanatory variables. We find that t he coefficient on the 
acquirer’s liquidity is significantly negative and the coefficient on the target’s liquidity is 
significantly positive. 
      Our finding complements Officer (2007) who finds that acquisition discounts in cash 
acquisitions are l arger than in stock acquisitions, because cash provides immediate liquidity and 
stock does not. The regression estimates indicate that the premium is positively related to the 
acquirer’s prior -year stock return and the target’s leverage in stock deals. In the subsample of 
cash acquisitions, the estimated coefficient on Relative Liquidity is not statistically significant 
except in the last column; this is consistent with the notion that acquirer’s stock liquidity is 
irrelevant for target shareholders in a cash deal.  
      Panel B of Table 7 reports the IV regression results in the Russell -sample. These results are 
aligned with those obtained from the full sample in Panel A. The coefficients on the instrumented 
acquirer liquidity are negative and statisticall y significant for all three liquidity measures in the 
subsample of stock acquisitions, but they are positive and statistically insignificant in the 
subsample of cash acquisitions. In the regressions, we have controlled  for the target’s liquidity 
and variou s other deal characteristics, including Related Deal , Relative Size, Competing Bid , 
Tender Offer, and ln(deal size). Coefficients on these variables are left unreported. In Table B.5 
of Appendix B, we show the robustness of our results in a wider bandwidth of firms and with 
higher order of polynomials included in the regression.  
5.3. Acquirers Enhance Their Stock Liquidity Before Acquisitions 
The prior literature discussed earlier has shown that stock splits and other actions that can 
mitigate information -asymmetry, such as providing earnings guidance, are associated with a 
subsequent improvement in a firm’s stock liquidity . In Prediction 3, we argue that firms are 

=== PAGE 40 ===
38 
 
likely to undertake such liquidity -enhancing actions prior to embarking on an acquisition. Before 
testing Prediction 3, we verify that the findings in the prior literature on the impact of stock-splits 
and earnings guidance on stock liquidity hold in our sample. To that end, we regress the liquidity 
measures as of year t on a dummy variable indicating whether the firm split its stock in year t–1 
and on the frequency of earnings guidance in year t–1, while controlli ng for various 
characteristics of the firm and its information environment.  
      We obtain data on earnings guidance from First Call and these data are available starting from 
1994. The results, presented in Table B.6 of Appendix B, show that stock splits and the frequency 
of earnings guidance are both strongly associated with greater stock liquidity in the following 
year. The estimated coefficients on the two main variables of interest are positive and statistically 
significant for all three measure s of stock liquidity. As expected, firms with larger size, higher 
market-to-book ratios, more cash holding, lower leverage, better operating performance, lower 
stock return volatility, and more analysts’ coverage have higher stock liquidity. 
      Next, we  test Prediction 3 , which is whether firms tend to conduct stock splits or provide 
more earnings guidance prior to making stock acquisitions. Panel A of Table 8 presents the 
baseline results from estimating Equation (3). In Column (1), we estimate a logit regression 
where the dependent variable is an indicator that equals one if a firm splits its stock in year t, 
while in Column (2) we estimate an OLS regression where the dependent variable is the 
difference between the number of earnings guidance provided in years t and t–1. In both cases, 
consistent with our prediction, the estimated coefficients on the main variable of interest, 
𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘𝑎𝑐𝑞𝑖𝑡+1, are positive and significant at 1% level.  
      One might be concerned that both stock splits/earnings guidance provisions and the decision 
to engage in stock acquisitions are endogenous, and thus the estimated coefficients on 
𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘𝑎𝑐𝑞𝑖𝑡+1 might be biased. To address this concern, we instrument 𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘𝑎𝑐𝑞𝑖𝑡+1 with the 
total number of acquisitions that occurred in the same year and three -digit SIC industry. To the 

=== PAGE 41 ===
39 
 
extent that acquisitions occur in waves (e.g., Harford, 2005) and it is reasonable to assume that 
acquisitions made in the industry are unlikely to b e related to an individual firm’s stock 
split/earnings guidance decisions except through its decision to make stock acquisitions, this 
instrument satisfies both the relevance and exclusion conditions for the IV estimation.  
      Panel B of Table 8 reports  both first- and second-stage estimates from this IV regression. In 
the first stage, the decision of stock acquisitions is shown to be positively related to the number of 
acquisitions made in the industry and the correlation is statistically significant at  1% level. We 
also find that the number of acquisitions made in the industry  is a strong instrument as seen from 
the large F-value for the first stage regression. 30  The second-stage results confirm those in Panel 
A that the coefficients on the instrumented  𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘𝑎𝑐𝑞𝑖𝑡+1  remain positive and statistically 
significant. In sum, the evidence provides support to Prediction 3 that firms tend to take steps to 
improve stock liquidity prior to making stock acquisitions.           
5.4. Announcement Returns and Acquirer’s Stock Liquidity 
According to Prediction 4, greater stock liquidity of the acquirer will improve the gains to the 
acquirer from stock acquisitions. We test this prediction next and present the results in Table 9. 
We find that, for all three liquidit y measures, the acquirer’s announcement CARs are positively 
and statistically significantly related to Relative Liquidity  in a stock deal. The more liquid 
acquirers’ stock is relative to targets’, the higher (or less negative) are the acquirers’ 
announcement CARs. For a one -standard-deviation increase in Relative Liquidity, the CARs 
increase by 0.51%-0.95% depending on the measure of liquidity. This improvement in acquirer’s 
announcement returns is economically significant, given that the average (median) C ARs for 
stock deals in our sample of public targets is –3.86% (–2.94%). Consistent with prior literature, 
acquirers’ CARs are negatively related to their price run -up, market -to-book ratio, and stock 
return volatility, but positively related to the target’s market-to-book ratio.     
                                                           
30  Note that an F-value over 10 is typically considered as a sign of a strong instrument. 

=== PAGE 42 ===
40 
 
6. Discussion and Robustness Tests 
We discuss further extensions of our hypothesis as well as various robustness checks to ensure 
that our results are not specific to our sampling choice and are robust to an alternative approach 
to dealing with endogeneity.  
6.1. The expected stock liquidity of the combined firm 
We have shown that the acquirer’s stock liquidity relative to the target’s prior to the deal has a 
significant impact on the method of payment and deal premium. As suggested by the model, the 
anticipated stock liquidity in the combined fi rm after deal completion (relative to the target’s 
current stock liquidity) will affect target shareholders’ decisions on the deal’s terms. If we 
assume that the expected stock liquidity of the post -deal new firm is size-weighted average of the 
acquirer’s and the target’s pre-deal liquidity: 
𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑛𝑒𝑤 =  𝑤 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝐴𝑐𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑟𝑒𝑟+ (1 − 𝑤) 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑇𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑒𝑡 
where 𝑤 =  
𝑆𝑖𝑧𝑒𝐴𝑐𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑟𝑒𝑟
𝑆𝑖𝑧𝑒𝐴𝑐𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑟𝑒𝑟+𝑆𝑖𝑧𝑒𝑇𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑒𝑡
 and Size is market capitalization. 31 If target shareholders are 
mainly concerned with the expected liquidity after the deal relative to the target’s current 
liquidity, we have   
𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑛𝑒𝑤 − 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑇𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑒𝑡 =  𝑤(𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝐴𝑐𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑟𝑒𝑟− 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑇𝑎𝑟𝑔𝑒𝑡). 
Therefore, the expected difference in stock liquidity for target shareholders is proportional to the 
acquirer-target liquidity difference (Relative Liquidity) that we have used in examining its impact 
on deal payment in stock and deal premium, with the proportion being positively (negatively) 
related to the acquirer’s (target’s) size.  
                                                           
31 This assumption is consistent with the finding in Massa and Xu (2013) that the post -deal combined firm’s stock 
liquidity is positively related to the target’s stock liquidity prior to the deal. The combined liquidity measure from 
our theoretical model is difficult to estimate directly and requires information about the compo sition of liquidity 
investors.  

=== PAGE 43 ===
41 
 
      We repeat the estimations in Tables 6 and 7 by replacing the acquirer -target liquidity 
difference with the expected difference in stock liquidity. All of our earlier findings continue to 
hold qualitatively. For brevity, we do not tabulate the results but they are available upon request. 
This validates our use of the acquirer -target liquidity difference (Relative Liquidity) in examining 
its impact on deal payment and pricing.   
6.2. An alternative interpretation of the IV estimation results   
Using the same Russell index reconstitution setting, Appel, Gormley, and Keim (2016c) show  
that assignment into Russell 2000 is associated with an improvement in corporate governance 
around the Russell 1000/2000 cutoff threshold. One may thus be concerned that our IV 
estimation results in the Russell -sample may be explained by an improvement in  corporate 
governance instead of an improvement in stock liquidity of firms at the top of Russell 2000. In 
particular, the lower price premium paid by a more liquid acquirer assigned into Russell 2000 
might be simply due to the improvement in corporate governance of the acquirer.  
      This governance -based interpretation, however, cannot explain why a firm being assigned 
into Russell 2000 is more likely to make (stock) acquisitions and pay more for the acquisitions in 
stock as opposed to cash, especially when it is more financially constrained. Nor would it explain 
why stock acquisitions and premiums are affected by target stock liquidity. We nevertheless 
conduct a test to address this concern more formally.  Specifically, we exclude from the original 
Russell-sample of our IV estimation (firms ranked 701st through 1300th each year based on their 
end-of-May market capitalization ) firms ranked 1001st through 1300th each year that show an  
improvement in corporate governance following reconstitution and firms ranked 701st through 
1000th each year  that show a decline in corporate governance following reconstitution. In 
particular, a firm that is ranked 1001st through 1300th (a firm that is ranked 701st through 1000th) 
will be dropped if any of the following holds in the year following reconstitution, compared with 
the year prior to reconstitution: (i) there is an increase (decrease) in the fraction of outsiders on 

=== PAGE 44 ===
42 
 
the board; (ii) the CEO -duality role is separated (combined); (iii) the number of proxy proposals 
submitted declines (increases). We therefore ensure that we are not comparing firms with 
improved governance and firms with worsened governance.  
      We then re-estimate the IV regressions for this reduced subsample. Results presented in Table 
B.7 of Appendix B show  that our findings with the IV estimations continue to hold even for this 
subsample of firms. Although the three aspects of governance available in our data cannot fully 
capture aspect of  the firm’s corporate governance, the evidence  suggests that our findings are 
unlikely to result solely from the improvement in governance in firms at the top of Russell 2000.  
6.3. Robustness to alternative sampling choices in the IV estimation 
In the IV regression results reported in the tables above , our sample consists of firms that are 
ranked 701st through 1300th based on end-of-May market capitalization. This helps deal with the 
potential endogeneity concern that Russell’s ranking of constituent stocks within an index based 
on the stocks’ float -adjusted end-of-June market capitalization is related to stock liquidity.  One 
disadvantage of this approach is that we are not necessarily comparing the very bottom firms in 
the Russell 1000 with the very top firms in the Russell 2000, from which we expect to observe 
the most significant difference in stock liquidity. Moreover, controlling for float-adjusted end-of-
June market capitalization, as we have done in  the main analysis, can mitigate the endogeneity 
concern. As such, we repeat the analyses with a sample of  the bottom 300 stocks with the 
smallest index weights in the Russell 1000 and the top 300 stocks with the largest index weights 
in the Russell 2000, and control for float -adjusted end -of-June market capitalization in the 
regressions. We find that our results  on the IV estimations  continue to hold for this sample, and 
they do not change qualitatively if we expand the bandwidth to 400 stocks on each side . The 
findings are not tabulated for brevity, but are available upon request. 
6.4. An alternative approach to address the endogeneity of stock liquidity   

=== PAGE 45 ===
43 
 
We take an alternative and  more straightforward approach to address the issue of stock liquidity 
endogeneity by replacing the stock liquidity measures with their  corresponding measures as of 
three years ago. It is reasonable to assume that a firm’s liquidity three years ago is less likely to  
be related to its current acquisition decisions and deal cha racteristics. We repeat the main tests 
with liquidity measures as of three years ago and find that our findings hold . Again, we leave 
these results untabulated but they are available upon request. This is complementary to the 
evidence with the Russell -sample IV estimation and further mitigates the endogeneity concern s 
with our findings.    
7. Conclusion 
We claim, with the aid of a simple model, that liquidity can enhance the role of acquirer stock as 
an acquisition currency. Firms with more liquid stocks are more likely to make acquisitions and 
pay for them with equity, especially when the target’s stock liquidity is relatively low.  Acquirers 
with liquid stock pay lower price premiums and experience less negative deal announcement 
abnormal returns in stock deals. To exploit the benefits of more liquid stock in M&As, firms tend 
to take actions to enhance their information environment and improve stock liquidity prior to 
acquisitions, such as conducting stock splits and providing more earnings guidance.  
      We exploit the exogenous variation in stock liquidity induced by annual changes in the 
composition of the Russell1000 and the Russell 2000 indices to identify the impact of stock 
liquidity. We find a significant and time -persistent impact of Russell index a ssignment on the 
liquidity of constituent stocks . There is a jump in stock liquidity around the midway point from 
the bottom stocks of Russell 1000 to the top stocks of Russell 2000 even when we rank these 
stocks based on their end-of-May market capitalization. With this identification, we claim that the 
impact of stock liquidity on acquisitions and deal characteristics is causal. 
 

=== PAGE 46 ===
44 
 
References 
Ahern, K. R., & Sosyura, D., 2014. Who writes the news? Corporate press releases during merger 
negotiations. Journal of Finance, 69(1), 241-291. 
Amihud, Y., 2002. Illiquidity and stock returns: cross -section and time -series effects. Journal of 
Financial Markets, 5(1), 31-56. 
Amihud, Y., Lev, B., & Travlos, N. G., 1990. Corporate control and the choice of investment 
financing: The case of corporate acquisitions, Journal of Finance, 45, 603–616 
Amihud, Y., & Mendelson, H., 1980. Dealership market: Market -making with inventory. Journal 
of Financial Economics, 8(1), 31-53. 
Amihud, Y., & Mendelson, H., 1991. Liquidity, asset prices and financial policy. Financial 
Analysts Journal, 47(6), 56-66. 
Angrist, J., & Pischke, J., 2009. Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist’s Companion. 
Princeton University Press, Princeton 
Ang, J. S., & Cheng, Y., 2006. Direct evidence on the market ‐driven acquisition theory. Journal 
of Financial Research, 29(2), 199-216. 
Appel, I., Gormley, T., & Keim, D., 2016a.  Identification using Russell 1000/2000 index 
assignments: A discussion of methodologies. Unpublished working paper. 
Appel, I., Gormley, T., & Keim, D., 2016b. Standing on the shoulders of giants: The effect of 
passive investors on activism. Unpublished working paper. 
Appel, I., Gormley, T., & Keim, D., 2016c. Passive investors, not passive owners. Journal of 
Financial Economics, 121(1), 111-141. 
Back, K., Li, T., & Ljungqvist, A., 2014. Liquidity and governance. Unpublished working paper. 
Balakrishnan, K.,  Billings, M., Kelly, B., & Ljungqvist, A., 2014. Shaping Liquidity: On the 
Causal Effects of Voluntary Disclosure, Journal of Finance, 69, 2237-2278. 
Berkovitch, E., & Narayanan, M. P., 1990. Competition and the medium of exchange in 
takeovers. Review of Financial Studies, 3(2), 153-174. 
Beyer, A., Cohen, D. A., Lys, T. Z., & Walther, B. R., 2010. The financial reporting environment: 
Review of the recent literature. Journal of Accounting and Economics, 50,179–234. 
Bharath, S. T., Jayaraman, S., & Nagar, V. , 2013. Exit as governance: An empirical 
analysis. Journal of Finance, 68(6), 2515-2547. 
Bond, P., Edmans, A., & Goldstein, I., 2012. The real effects of financial market. Annual Review 
of Financial Economics, 4, 339-360. 

=== PAGE 47 ===
45 
 
Boone, A. L., Lie, E., & Liu, Y., 2014. Time trends and determinants of the method of payment 
in M&As. Journal of Corporate Finance, 27, 296-304. 
Boone, A. L., & White, J. T., 2015. The effect of institutional ownership on firm transparency 
and information production. Journal of Financial Economics, 117, 508-533. 
Brown, D. T., & Ryngaert, M. D., 1991. The mode of acquisition in takeovers: Taxes and 
asymmetric information, Journal of Finance, 46, 653–669. 
Chang, Y., Hong, H., & Liskovich, I., 2015. Regression discontinuity and the price effe cts of 
stock market indexing. Review of Financial Studies, 28, 212–246. 
Chordia T., Roll R., & Subrahmanyam A., 2011. Recent trends in trading activity and market 
quality. Journal of Financial Economics, 101(2), 243-263. 
Coller, M., & Yohn, T. L., 1997. Ma nagement Forecasts and Information Asymmetry: An 
examination of bid-ask spreads. Journal of Accounting Research, 35(2), 181-191. 
Crane, A., Michenaud, S., & Weston, J., 2014. The effect of institutional ownership on payout 
policy: Evidence from index thresholds. Unpublished working paper. 
Dass, N., Huang, S., Maharjan, J., Nanda, V., & Xiao, S., 2015. The effect of stock liquidity on 
corporate innovation. Unpublished working paper. 
Diamond, D. W., & Verrecchia, R. E., 1991. Disclosure, Liquidity, and the Co st of Capital. 
Journal of Finance, 46(4), 1325-1359. 
Dong, M., Hirshleifer, D., Richardson, S., & Teoh, S. H., 2006. Does investor misvaluation drive 
the takeover market? Journal of Finance, 61(2), 725-762. 
Easley, D., & O'Hara, M., 2003. Microstructure and asset pricing. Handbook of the Economics of 
Finance, 1, 1021-1051. 
Eckbo, B. E., Giammarino, R. M., & Heinkel, R. L., 1990, Asymmetric information and the 
medium of exchange in takeovers: Theory and tests. Review of Financial Studies, 3, 651–675. 
Eckbo, B. E., & Thorburn, K. S., 2000. Gains to bidder firms revisited: domestic and foreign 
acquisitions in Canada. Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 35(1), 1-25. 
Edmans, A., Fang, V., & Zur, E., 2013. The effect of liquidity on governance. Review of 
Financial Studies, 26, 1443–1482. 
Erickson, M., & Wang, S. W., 1999. Earnings management by acquiring firms in stock for stock 
mergers. Journal of Accounting and Economics, 27(2), 149-176. 
Faccio, M., & Masulis, R. W., 2005. The choice of payment method in European mergers and 
acquisitions. Journal of Finance, 60(3), 1345-1388. 
Fang, V. W., Noe, T. H., & Tice, S., 2009. Stock market liquidity and firm value. Journal of 
Financial Economics, 94(1), 150-169. 

=== PAGE 48 ===
46 
 
Fang, V. W., Tian, X., & Tice, S., 2014. Do es stock liquidity enhance or impede firm 
innovation? Journal of Finance, 69(5), 2085-2125. 
Fich, E., Harford, J., & Tran, A., 2015. Motivated monitors: the importance of institutional 
investors’ portfolio weights. Journal of Financial Economics, forthcoming. 
Fishman, M. J., 1989. Preemptive bidding and the role of the medium of exchange in 
acquisitions. Journal of Finance, 41-57. 
Frino, A., & Gallagher, D. R., 2001. Tracking S&P 500 index funds. Journal of Portfolio 
Management, 28, 44–55. 
Fuller, K., Netter, J., & Stegemoller, M., 2002. What do returns to acquiring firms tell us? 
Evidence from firms that make many acquisitions, Journal of Finance, 57, 1763–1793. 
Ge, R., & Lennox, C., 2011. Do acquirers disclose good news or withhold bad new s when they 
finance their acquisitions using equity? Review of Accounting Studies, 16(1), 183-217. 
Ghosh, A., & Ruland, W., 1998, Managerial ownership, the method of payment for acquisitions, 
and executive job retention, Journal of Finance, 53, 785–798. 
Grossman, S. J., & Stiglitz, J. E., 1980. On the impossibility of informationally efficient 
markets. The American Economic Review, 393-408. 
Hansen, R. G., 1987. A theory for the choice of exchange medium in mergers and acquisitions, 
Journal of Business, 60, 75–95. 
Harford, J., 2005. What drives merger waves? Journal of Financial Economics, 77, 529-560. 
Holmströ m, B., & Tirole, J., 1993. Market liquidity and performance monitoring. Journal of 
Political Economy, 678-709. 
Jayaraman, S., & Milbourn, T. T., 2012. The effect of auditor expertise on executive 
compensation. Available at SSRN 1955488. 
Kaplan, S. N., & Zingales, L., 1997. Do investment -cash flow sensitivities provide useful 
measures of financing constraints? The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 169-215. 
Koeplin, J., Sarin, A., & Shapiro, A., 2000. The private company discount. Journal of Applied 
Corporate Finance, 12, 94-101. 
Kyle, A. S., 1985. Continuous auctions and insider trading.  Econometrica: Journal of the 
Econometric Society, 1315-1335. 
Lee, D. S., & Lemieux, T., 2009.  Regression discontinuity designs in economics  (No. w14723). 
National Bureau of Economic Research. 
Lin, J. C., Singh, A. K., & Yu, W., 2009. Stock splits, trading continuity, and the cost of equity 
capital. Journal of Financial Economics, 93(3), 474-489. 

=== PAGE 49 ===
47 
 
Louis, H., 2004. Earnings management and the market performance of acquiring firms. Journal 
of Financial Economics, 74, 121-148. 
Lu, R., 2013. How does institutional ownership affect bank loan pricing: Evidence from a 
regression discontinuity design. Unpublished working paper. 
Martin, K. J., 1996. The method of payment in corporate acquisitions, investment opportunities, 
and management ownership, Journal of Finance, 51, 1227–1246. 
Massa, M., & Xu, M., 2013. The value of (stock) liquidity in the M&A market. Journal of 
Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 48, 1463-1497. 
Maug, E., 1998. Large shareholders as monitors: is there a trade‐off between liquidity and control? 
Journal of Finance, 53(1), 65-98. 
Moeller, S. B., Schlingemann, F. P., & Stulz, R. M., 2007. How do  diversity of opinion and 
information asymmetry affect acquirer returns? Review of Financial Studies, 20(6), 2047-2078. 
Mullins, W., 2014. The governance impact of index funds: evidence from a regression 
discontinuity. Unpublished working paper. 
Muscarella, C. J., & Vetsuypens, M. R., 1996. Stock Splits: Signaling or Liquidity? The case of 
ADR solo-splits. Journal of Financial Economics, 42(1), 3-26. 
Roll, R., 1992. A Mean/Variance Analysis of Tracking Error. Journal of Portfolio Management , 
18(4), 13-22. 
Officer, M. S., 2007. The price of corporate liquidity: Acquisition discounts for unlisted 
targets. Journal of Financial Economics, 83(3), 571-598. 
Officer, M. S., Poulsen, A. B., & Stegemoller, M., 2009. Target -firm information asymmetry and 
acquirer returns. Review of Finance, 13(3), 467-493. 
Rhodes–Kropf, M., Robinson, D. T., & Viswanathan, S., 2005. Valuation waves and merger 
activity: The empirical evidence. Journal of Financial Economics, 77(3), 561-603. 
Roberts, M. R., & Whited, T. M., 2013. Handbook of the Economics of Finance.  Corporate 
Finance, 2, 493-572. 
Roll, R., 1992. Industrial structure and the comparative behavior of international stock market 
indices. Journal of Finance, 47(1), 3-41. 
Roosenboom, P., Schlingemann, F. P., & Vasconcelos, M., 20 13. Does stock liquidity affect 
incentives to monitor? Evidence from corporate takeovers. Review of Financial Studies , 27(8), 
2392-2433. 
Schlingemann, F. P., Stulz, R. M., & Walkling, R. A., 2002. Divestitures and the liquidity of the 
market for corporate assets. Journal of Financial Economics, 64(1), 117-144. 

=== PAGE 50 ===
48 
 
Schmidt, C., 2012. Shareholding monitoring incentives and corporate policies. Unpublished 
working paper. 
Shleifer, A., & Vishny, R. W., 1992.  Liquidation values and debt capacity: A market equilibrium 
approach. Journal of Finance, 47(4), 1343-1366. 
Shleifer, A., & Vishny, R. W., 2003, Stock market driven acquisitions, Journal of Financial 
Economics, 70, 295–311. 
Stulz, R., 1988. Managerial cont rol of voting rights: Financing policies and the market for 
corporate control. Journal of Financial Economics, 20, 25-54. 
Travlos, N. G., 1987, Corporate takeover bids, method of payment, and bidding firms’ stock 
returns, Journal of Finance, 42, 943–963. 
Yan, S., & Zhang, Z., 2009. Institutional Investors and Equity Returns: Are Short -term 
Institutions Better Informed? Review of Financial Studies, 22(2), 893-924. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE 51 ===
49 
 
 
Figure 1: Russell Index Weights and Rank of Constituent Stocks within an Index 
This figure presents the average index weights for 1000 firms on each s ide of the Russell 1000/20 00 cutoff for the 
period of 1998  to 2006. Stock rank is the integer distance of a firm from the index cutoff which is centered at zero 
around the Russell 1000/2000 threshold. It is determined by the ranking of each constituent within each index, which 
is assigned by Russell based on its proprietary float -adjusted end-of-June market capitalization. A negative (positive) 
value is assigned to firms  in Russell 1000 (2000) in the left -hand (right-hand) side of the cutoff . Each dot represents 
an average index weight calculated using bins of 50 firms in the sample. Firms are assigned to the Russell 1000 or 
2000 based on the market capitalization as of the end of the last trading day in May. The index reconstitution takes 
place at the end of June with index weights being determined by Russell’s proprietary float -adjusted market 
capitalization. 
 
0.0 0.3 0.5 0.8 1.0
Russell-assigned Index wt. (%)
-1000 -500 0 500 1000
Russell-assigned Rank
Bins of 50 rank positions

=== PAGE 52 ===
50 
 
Figure 2: Stock Liquidity of Firms by End-of-May Market Capitalization Rankings for the 
Bottom 300 Firms of Russell 1000 and Top 300 Firms of Russell 2000  
The graphs present the stock liquidity by firm ranking, which is based on firms’ end -of-May market capitalization, as 
reported in CRSP. The sample includes the bottom 300 firms of the Russell 1000 and the top 300 firms of the Russell 
2000, as determined using end-of-June Russell-assigned portfolio weights for each index. Liquidity is measured as of 
one quarter after the Russell indexes are reconstitut aed annually (each September) . The plots represent local sample 
means using sixty non -overlapping evenly -spaced bins on each side of the 1000th firm. The lines drawn , with the 
associated 90% confidence bands, fit linear regression curves on either side.  
(a) AMH 
 
(b) Spread 
 
(c) Turnover 
 
-15.7 -15.3 -14.9 -14.4 -14.0AMH
700 800 900 1000 1100 1200 1300
Rank based on end-of-May market cap
Bins of 5 rank positions
5.3 5.5 5.7 5.8 6.0
Spread
700 800 900 1000 1100 1200 1300
Rank based on end-of-May market cap
Bins of 5 rank positions
0.10 0.14 0.18 0.22 0.26
Turnover
700 800 900 1000 1100 1200 1300
Rank based on end-of-May market cap
Bins of 5 rank positions

=== PAGE 53 ===
51 
 
Table 1: Summary Statistics 
This table presents sum mary statistics of firm and deal characteristics . Panel A is for the overall sample  of 
Compustat-CRSP firms in the sample period 1984 -2012, while panel B is for acquirers of both private and public 
targets. Panel C is for public targets, and Panel D is for deals involving public targets.  
Variable N Mean SD Median 
Panel A: Overall Sample of Compustat-CRSP Firms 
AMH 118229 -4.790 3.056 -4.629 
Spread 118229 4.189 1.411 3.974 
Sturnover 118229 0.636 0.747 0.383 
Acquisition (Dummy) 118229 0.096 0.294 0 
Stockacq (Dummy) 118229 0.044 0.205 0 
Firm Size 118229 5.615 2.216 5.478 
Ind_Stock_Return 118229 -0.001 0.605 -0.074 
Leverage 118229 0.338 0.349 0.294 
 Leverage 118229 -0.001 0.299 0 
Market-to-Book 118229 2.065 2.499 1.348 
Tangibility 118229 0.243 0.243 0.157 
V olatility 118229 0.627 0.391 0.525 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Panel B: Acquirers of both public and private targets 
AMH 4966 -2.133 1.988 -1.495 
Spread 4966 5.055 1.286 4.772 
Sturnover 4966 0.798 0.731 0.550 
Ind_Stock_Return 4966 0.158 0.677 0.040 
Leverage 4966 0.374 0.277 0.363 
 Leverage 4966 -0.010 0.171 -0.003 
Market-to-Book 4966 2.262 2.117 1.566 
Runup 4966 0.055 0.276 0.019 
V olatility 4966 0.456 0.261 0.386 
Panel C: Public Targets 
AMH        2501 -3.954 2.423 -3.798 
Spread 2501 4.339 1.188 4.091 
Turnover 2501 0.689 0.692 0.446 
Leverage 2501 0.361 0.294 0.357 
Market-to-Book 2501 24.563 55.13 5.074 
 
Panel D: Characteristics of deals involving public targets 
 
Acquirer’s CAR 2471 -0.023 0.083 -0.017 
Competing Bid  2501 0.077 0.266 0 
Ln(deal size) 2501 6.134 1.425 5.908 
Percent_stockPMT 2501 0.608 0.431 0.794 
Premium    2306 0.259 0.404 0.253 
Related Deal  2499 0.603 0.489 1 
Relative Size 2501 -1.901 1.354 -1.781 
Tender Offer  2501 0.150 0.357 0 

=== PAGE 54 ===
52 
 
Table 2: First Stage Estimation for Stock Liquidity  
This table presents estimates of the first-stage IV regression of stock liquidity on an indicator of  end-of-May market 
capitalization ranking. The sample is obtained by ranking stocks based on their end -of-May market capitalization, as 
reported in CRSP, and select ing firms ranked 701st through 1300th for each year of the sample  during 1998-2006.  
Specifically,  
𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡 = 𝛼 +  𝛽 𝑅2000𝑖𝑡 + ∑ 𝛾𝑛
𝑁
𝑛=1
 (𝐿𝑛(𝑀𝑎𝑦 𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑐𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡)𝑛 +  𝜌 𝐿𝑛(𝐽𝑢𝑛𝑒 𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑡 𝑎𝑑𝑗.  𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑚𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡 + 𝜇𝑡 + 𝜀𝑖𝑡 
where R2000 is an indicator variable that equals one if firm i’s end-of-May market capitalization is ranked beyond 
1001st in year t and zero otherwise; 𝐿𝑛(𝑀𝑎𝑦 𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑐𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡 is the natural logarithm of firm i’s end-of-May market 
capitalization in year t; Ln(𝐽𝑢𝑛𝑒 𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑡 𝑎𝑑𝑗.𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑐𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡 is the natural logarithm of firm i’s end -of-June float-
adjusted market capitalization in year t, as provided by Russell . 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦 is firm i’s stock liquidity at the end of 
September in reconstitution year t. The liquidity measure used in each regression is indicated at the top of the table. 
*, **, and *** indicate significance at 10%, 5%, and 1%, respectively.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 AMH Spread Turnover 
R2000 0.100** 0.080*** 0.019** 
 (0.047) (0.026) (0.009) 
Observations 5271 5271 5271 
Adjusted R2 0.518 0.737 0.047 
Bandwidth 300 300 300 
Polynomial order 1 1 1 
Controls Yes Yes Yes 
Year Fixed Effects Yes Yes Yes 

=== PAGE 55 ===
53 
 
Table 3: Stock Liquidity and Likelihood of Acquisition 
Panel A of this table presents coefficient estimates from logit  regressions that examine the impact of firms’ stock 
liquidity on the likelihood of making acquisition s for the full sample  during 1984-2012. The dependent variable is a 
dummy variable that takes a value of one if a firm makes an acquisition  in the fiscal year, and zero otherwise. The 
liquidity measure used in each regression is indicated at the top of the table. Other explanatory variables are defined 
in Appendix  A. Year and industry (defined based on three -digit SIC codes) fixed effect  are included in all  
regressions. Robust standard errors are clustered by industry and reported in parentheses. Panel B reports estimates 
from the second-stage IV regression. The sample is obtained by ranking stocks based on their end -of-May market 
capitalization, as reported  in CRSP, and selecting firms ranked 701st through 1300th for each year of the sample 
during 1998-2006. Specifically, 
𝑌𝑖𝑡 = 𝜏 +  𝜃 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡̂ + ∑ 𝜎𝑛
𝑁
𝑛=1
 (𝐿𝑛(𝑀𝑎𝑦 𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑐𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡)𝑛 +  𝜑 𝐿𝑛(𝐽𝑢𝑛𝑒 𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑡 𝑎𝑑𝑗.  𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑚𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡 +  𝜇𝑡 + 𝜔𝑖𝑡 
where Yit takes a value of one if firm i makes an acquisition in the period of July 1 st in year t to the end of next May. 
*, **, and *** indicate significance at 10%, 5%, and 1% respectively. 
Panel A: Full Sample 
 (1) (2) (3) 
 AMH Spread Turnover 
    
Liquidity 0.260*** 0.540*** 0.233*** 
 (0.019) (0.042) (0.027) 
Leverage -0.032 -0.048 -0.191*** 
 (0.051) (0.049) (0.055) 
Δ Leverage -0.214*** -0.238*** -0.181*** 
 (0.045) (0.047) (0.044) 
Tangibility -1.142*** -1.178*** -1.234*** 
 (0.203) (0.205) (0.225) 
Market-to-Book -0.025** -0.009 0.023*** 
 (0.011) (0.008) (0.008) 
Firm Size -0.113*** -0.021 0.138*** 
 (0.029) (0.023) (0.028) 
Ind_Stock_Return 0.375*** 0.341*** 0.319*** 
 (0.025) (0.024) (0.023) 
Volatility 0.017 0.005 -0.480*** 
 (0.073) (0.064) (0.074) 
Constant -2.026*** -5.859*** -4.411*** 
 (0.599) (0.372) (0.428) 
Observations 117214 117214 117214 
Pseudo R2 0.113 0.109 0.099 
Year and Industry Fixed Effects Yes Yes Yes 
Panel B: IV regressions- Russell Sample 
 AMH Spread Turnover 
Liquidity 0.242*** 0.302*** 1.277*** 
 (0.077) (0.118) (0.404) 
Observations 5271 5271 5271 
Bandwidth 300 300 300 
Polynomial order 1 1 1 
Controls Yes Yes Yes 
Year Fixed Effects Yes Yes Yes 

=== PAGE 56 ===
54 
 
Table 4: Stock Liquidity and Likelihood of Stock Acquisition 
Panel A of this table presents coefficient estimates from logit  regressions that examine the impact of firms’ stock 
liquidity on the likelihood of making stock acquisitions for the full sample  during 1984 -2012. The dependent 
variable is a dummy variable that takes a value of one if a firm makes a stock acquisition in the fiscal year, and zero 
otherwise. The liquidity measure used in each regression is indicated at the top of the table. Other explanatory 
variables are defined in Appendix A. Year and industry (defined based on three -digit SIC codes) fixed effect are 
included in all regressions. Robust standard errors are clustered by industry and reported in parentheses. Panel B 
reports estimates from the second -stage IV regression. The sample is obtained by ranking stocks based on their end -
of-May market capitalization, as reported in CRSP, and selecting firms ranked 701st through 1300th for each year of 
the sample during 1998-2006. Specifically, 
𝑌𝑖𝑡 = 𝜏 +  𝜃 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡̂ + ∑ 𝜎𝑛
𝑁
𝑛=1
 (𝐿𝑛(𝑀𝑎𝑦 𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑐𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡)𝑛 +  𝜑 𝐿𝑛(𝐽𝑢𝑛𝑒 𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑡 𝑎𝑑𝑗.  𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑚𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡 +  𝜇𝑡 + 𝜔𝑖𝑡 
where Yit takes a value of one if firm i makes a stock acquisition in the period of July 1 st in year t to the end of next 
May. *, **, and *** indicate significance at 10%, 5%, and 1% respectively.  
Panel A: Full Sample 
 (1) (2) (3) 
 AMH Spread Turnover 
    
Liquidity 0.310*** 0.596*** 0.228*** 
 (0.023) (0.060) (0.031) 
Leverage -0.056 -0.094 -0.236** 
 (0.073) (0.089) (0.093) 
Δ Leverage -0.125** -0.144*** -0.091* 
 (0.050) (0.048) (0.047) 
Tangibility -1.050*** -1.130*** -1.226*** 
 (0.221) (0.227) (0.259) 
Market-to-Book 0.013 0.030*** 0.059*** 
 (0.010) (0.009) (0.011) 
Firm Size -0.124*** 0.011 0.184*** 
 (0.026) (0.018) (0.023) 
Ind_Stock_Return 0.391*** 0.345*** 0.333*** 
 (0.037) (0.036) (0.033) 
Volatility 0.679*** 0.618*** 0.143 
 (0.093) (0.079) (0.089) 
Constant -2.097*** -6.567*** -4.949*** 
 (0.531) (0.318) (0.354) 
Observations 113888 113888 113888 
Pseudo R2 0.185 0.176 0.167 
Year and Industry Fixed Effects Yes Yes Yes 
 
Panel B: IV regressions- Russell Sample 
 AMH Spread Turnover 
Liquidity 0.223*** 0.278*** 1.174*** 
 (0.045) (0.057) (0.217) 
Observations 5271 5271 5271 
Bandwidth 300 300 300 
Polynomial order 1 1 1 
Controls Yes Yes Yes 
Year Fixed Effects Yes Yes Yes 

=== PAGE 57 ===
55 
 
Table 5:  Stock Liquidity and Likelihood of Stock Acquisition: Effect of Firms’ Financial 
Constraints 
This table presents coefficient estimates from logit  regressions that examine how the impact of firms’ stock liquidity 
on the likelihood of making stock acquisitions varies in firms with varying extents of financial constraints for the full 
sample during 1984-2012. The dependent variable is a dummy variable  that takes a value of one if a firm makes a 
stock acquisition in the fiscal year, and zero otherwise. The liquidity measure used in each regression is indicated at 
the top of the table. KZ is the Kaplan -Zingales Index that captures the extent of financial  constraints that a firm 
encounters. Other explanatory variables are defined in Appendix A. Year and industry (defined based on three -digit 
SIC codes) fixed effect are included in all regressions. Robust standard errors are clustered by industry and report ed 
in parentheses. *, **, and *** indicate significance at 10%, 5%, and 1% respectively.  
 (1) (2) (3) 
 AMH Spread Turnover 
    
Liquidity 0.312*** 0.598*** 0.235*** 
 (0.022) (0.035) (0.025) 
Liquidity X KZ 0.005** 0.009* 0.734* 
 (0.002) (0.005) (0.417) 
KZ -0.016* -0.015** -0.023*** 
 (0.008) (0.007) (0.009) 
Leverage -0.003 -0.021 -0.145* 
 (0.082) (0.076) (0.078) 
Δ Leverage -0.111** -0.124** -0.080 
 (0.049) (0.055) (0.055) 
Tangibility -1.022*** -1.096*** -1.203*** 
 (0.215) (0.165) (0.168) 
Market-to-Book 0.015 0.032*** 0.061*** 
 (0.010) (0.007) (0.006) 
Firm Size -0.125*** 0.011 0.184*** 
 (0.026) (0.019) (0.015) 
Ind_Stock_Return 0.391*** 0.347*** 0.334*** 
 (0.037) (0.025) (0.025) 
Volatility 0.683*** 0.616*** 0.148** 
 (0.098) (0.066) (0.066) 
Constant -2.098*** -6.604*** -4.973*** 
 (0.523) (0.614) (0.609) 
Observations 113879 113879 113879 
Pseudo R2 0.185 0.176 0.167 
Year and Industry Fixed Effects Yes Yes Yes 
 
  

=== PAGE 58 ===
56 
 
Table 6: Stock Liquidity and the Fraction of Acquisition Payment in Stock 
Panel A of this table presents coeff icient estimates from tobit regressions  that examine the impact of liquidity on the 
fraction of deal payment in stock for the sample of deals involving public targets  during 1984 -2012. The liquidity 
measure used in each regression , indicated at the top of the table, is the difference between the acquirer’s and the 
target’s liquidity  (Relative Liquidity ). Other explanatory variables are defined in Appendix. Year and industry 
(defined based on three -digit SIC codes) fixed effect are included in all regressions. Robust standard errors are 
clustered by industry and reported in parentheses. Panel B reports estimates from the second-stage IV regression. The 
sample is first obtained by ranking stocks based on their end -of-May market capitalization, as reported in CRSP, and 
selecting firms ranked 701st through 1300th for each year of the sample during 1998 -2006 that were involved in 
acquisitions of public targets. Specifically, 
𝑌𝑖𝑡 = 𝜏 +  𝜃 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡̂ + ∑ 𝜎𝑛
𝑁
𝑛=1
 (𝐿𝑛(𝑀𝑎𝑦 𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑐𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡)𝑛 +  𝜑 𝐿𝑛(𝐽𝑢𝑛𝑒 𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑡 𝑎𝑑𝑗.  𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑚𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡 +  𝜇𝑡 + 𝜔𝑖𝑡 
where Yit is the fraction of deal payment in stock if a deal involving a public tar get occurs during the period of July 
1st of the reconstitution year to the end of next May. Panels C and D augment the tests in Panel A by interacting 
Relative Liquidity with Blockholder and Short horizon , respectively. Blockholder is defined as the number of 
blockholders with 5% or more stock ownership in the target in the quarter prior to deal announcement. Short horizon 
is defined as the ratio of shareholding by short -term investors to shareholding by long -term investors in the q uarter 
prior to the announcement date. For brevity, coefficient estimates on other variables are not reported. *, **, and *** 
indicate significance at 10%, 5%, and 1% respectively. 
Panel A: Full Sample 
 (1) (2) (3) 
 AMH Spread Turnover 
    
Relative Liquidity 0.048*** 0.057*** 0.013*** 
 (0.001) (0.004) (0.001) 
Runup 0.346*** 0.332*** 0.318*** 
 (0.008) (0.009) (0.009) 
Volatility 1.164*** 1.122*** 1.101*** 
 (0.006) (0.006) (0.006) 
Relative Size 0.158*** 0.134*** 0.117*** 
 (0.002) (0.002) (0.002) 
ln(deal size) 0.084*** 0.067*** 0.061*** 
 (0.001) (0.001) (0.001) 
Cash/Deal -0.010*** -0.010*** -0.010*** 
 (0.000) (0.000) (0.000) 
Leverage 0.017*** 0.043*** 0.030*** 
 (0.006) (0.006) (0.006) 
Δ Leverage -0.309*** -0.321*** -0.323*** 
 (0.006) (0.006) (0.007) 
PPE/Asset -0.228*** -0.223*** -0.223*** 
 (0.006) (0.006) (0.005) 
Market-to-Book 0.086*** 0.084*** 0.087*** 
 (0.001) (0.001) (0.001) 
Tender Offer -1.720*** -1.725*** -1.727*** 
 (0.008) (0.008) (0.008) 
Observations 2501 2501 2501 
Pseudo R2 0.340 0.339 0.339 
Year and Industry Fixed Effects Yes Yes Yes 
 
 

=== PAGE 59 ===
57 
 
 
Panel B: IV regressions- Russell Sample 
 AMH Spread Turnover 
Liquidity 0.334** 0.291*** 0.013*** 
 (0.146) (0.088) (0.005) 
Observations 278 278 278 
Bandwidth 300 300 300 
Polynomial order 1 1 1 
Controls Yes Yes Yes 
Year Fixed Effects Yes Yes Yes 
 
 
Panel C: Full Sample – Effect of Target Blockholding 
 AMH Spread Turnover 
    
Relative Liquidity 0.063*** 0.078*** 0.016*** 
 (0.001) (0.004) (0.005) 
Relative Liquidity X Blockholder -0.012*** -0.015*** -0.002 
 (0.001) (0.001) (0.001) 
Blockholder  -0.026*** 0.080*** 0.109*** 
 (0.003) (0.003) (0.003) 
Other controls Yes Yes Yes 
Observations 2501 2501 2501 
Pseudo R2 0.342 0.341 0.340 
Year and Industry Fixed Effects Yes Yes Yes 
 
 
Panel D: Full Sample – Effect of Target Investor Horizon 
 AMH Spread Turnover 
    
Relative Liquidity 0.052*** 0.071*** 0.011*** 
 (0.002) (0.005) (0.004) 
Relative Liquidity X Short Horizon 0.003*** 0.002*** 0.004*** 
 (0.000) (0.001) (0.001) 
Short Horizon -0.008*** -0.004*** -0.002*** 
 (0.001) (0.001) (0.000) 
Other controls Yes Yes Yes 
Observations 2051 2051 2051 
Pseudo R2 0.365 0.362 0.362 
Year and Industry Fixed Effects Yes Yes Yes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE 60 ===
58 
 
Table 7: Stock Liquidity and Deal Premium Paid 
Panel A of this  table presents the coefficient estimates from OLS regressions that examine the impac t of stock 
liquidity on the deal premium  for the subsamples of stock and cash acquisitions involving public targets, 
respectively. The dependent varia ble is Premium which is defined as the effective offer price as a percentage 
premium over the t arget firm’s market share price as of  two days prior to the takeover announcement. The liquidity 
measure used in each regression, indicated at the top of the tab le, is the difference between the acquirer’s and the 
target’s liquidity  (Relative Liquidity ). Other explanatory variables are defined in Appendix. Year and industry 
(defined based on three -digit SIC codes) fixed effect are included in all regressions. Robu st standard errors are 
clustered by industry and reported in parentheses. Panel B reports estimates from the second-stage IV regression. The 
sample is first obtained by ranking stocks based on their end -of-May market capitalization, as reported in CRSP, an d 
selecting firms ranked 701st through 1300th for each year of the sample during 1998 -2006 that were involved in 
acquisitions of public targets. Specifically,  
𝑌𝑖𝑡 = 𝜏 +  𝜃 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡̂ + ∑ 𝜎𝑛
𝑁
𝑛=1
 (𝐿𝑛(𝑀𝑎𝑦 𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑐𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡)𝑛 + 𝜑 𝐿𝑛(𝐽𝑢𝑛𝑒 𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑡 𝑎𝑑𝑗.  𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑚𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡
+ 𝜌 𝐷𝑒𝑎𝑙 𝐶ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑖𝑐𝑠𝑖𝑡 + 𝜇𝑡 + 𝜂𝑖𝑡 
where Yit is the deal premium paid for a deal involving a public target that occurs during the period of July 1 st of the 
reconstitution year to the end of next May.  Deal Characteristics included are Related Deal, Competing Bid, Tender 
Offer, and ln(deal size). *, **, and *** indicate significance at 10%, 5% and 1% respectively. 
 Panel A 
AMH Spread Turnover 
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 
Stock Cash Stock Cash Stock Cash 
Relative 
Liquidity 
-0.017* -0.011 -0.050*** 0.022 -0.024** -0.029** 
 (0.009) (0.013) (0.018) (0.025) (0.011) (0.014) 
Runup 0.078** -0.136 0.078** -0.114 0.089*** -0.128 
 (0.035) (0.106) (0.032) (0.098) (0.032) (0.102) 
Related Deal -0.024 -0.033 -0.023 -0.031 -0.024 -0.030 
 (0.016) (0.042) (0.016) (0.042) (0.016) (0.042) 
Competing Bid -0.028 -0.121*** -0.032 -0.123*** -0.021 -0.114** 
 (0.057) (0.045) (0.057) (0.047) (0.057) (0.046) 
Leverage_a  0.018 0.029 0.002 0.056 0.014 0.042 
 (0.061) (0.130) (0.056) (0.129) (0.056) (0.130) 
Leverage_t  0.091** 0.066 0.102** 0.064 0.097** 0.058 
 (0.042) (0.120) (0.042) (0.121) (0.046) (0.118) 
Tender Offer -0.019 0.048 -0.025 0.051 -0.014 0.047 
 (0.068) (0.042) (0.061) (0.042) (0.070) (0.042) 
ln(deal size) -0.022 -0.028 -0.015 -0.001 0.012 -0.013 
 (0.024) (0.032) (0.021) (0.029) (0.023) (0.031) 
Market-to-
Book_a  
-0.004 -0.003 -0.002 -0.003 -0.002 0.000 
 (0.005) (0.007) (0.006) (0.008) (0.006) (0.008) 
Market-to-
Book_t  
-0.000 0.000 -0.000 -0.000 -0.000 0.000 
 (0.000) (0.000) (0.000) (0.000) (0.000) (0.000) 
Constant -0.207* 0.374** -0.208* 0.360** -0.216** 0.360** 
 (0.111) (0.145) (0.117) (0.167) (0.109) (0.144) 
Observations 1334 673 1334 673 1334 673 
Adjusted R2 0.017 -0.008 0.020 -0.009 0.015 -0.007 
Year and 
Industry Fixed 
Effects 
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
 

=== PAGE 61 ===
59 
 
 
 
 
Panel B: IV regressions- Russell Sample 
 AMH Spread Turnover 
 Stock Cash Stock Cash Stock Cash 
       
Acquirer’s 
Liquidity 
-0.111*** 0.568 -0.250** 0.295 -0.006*** 0.023 
 (0.047) (0.518) (0.110) (0.178) (0.002) (0.019) 
Observations 126 131 126 131 126 131 
Bandwidth 300 300 300 300 300 300 
Polynomial 
order 
1 1 1 1 1 1 
Controls Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year Fixed 
Effects 
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
 
 
 
  

=== PAGE 62 ===
60 
 
Table 8: Liquidity-enhancing Activity Prior to Stock Acquisitions 
This table reports estimates on the effect of future stock acquisitions on a firm’s liquidity -enhancing activities that 
include stock splits and increase in earnings guidance. In Column (1) of P anel A, a logit regression is run with the 
dependent variable being a dummy that equals one if there is a stock split conducted in year t. In Column (2) of Panel 
A, an OLS regression is run with the dependent variable being the difference between the number of earni ngs 
guidance provided by the firm in year t and t -1. The sample period for the regression of C olumn (2) is 1994-2012. 
The main explanatory variable , Stockacq, is a dummy variable that takes a value of one if the firm makes a stock 
acquisition in year t+1  and zero otherwise.  Other explanatory variables are defined in Appendix. Year and industry 
(defined based on three -digit SIC codes) fixed effect are included in all regressions. Robust standard errors are 
clustered by industry and reported in parentheses.  Panel B reports the IV estimation results of the regressions in 
Panel A with Stockacq being instrumented using the total number of M&As in the  same industry (defined using  
three-digit SIC codes) of the firm in the year . Both the first-stage and second-stage estimation results are reported. *, 
**, and *** indicate significance at 10%, 5%, and 1% respectively.  
 
Panel A 
 (1) (2) 
 Stock Split Earnings Guidance 
    
Stockacq 0.216*** 0.186*** 
 (0.081) (0.058) 
Leverage -1.320*** -0.284*** 
 (0.090) (0.055) 
Δ Leverage 0.656*** 0.210*** 
 (0.066) (0.037) 
Market-to-Book 0.113*** -0.002 
 (0.006) (0.006) 
Firm Size 0.400*** 0.353*** 
 (0.013) (0.013) 
Ind_Stock_Return 0.758*** -0.064*** 
 (0.027) (0.015) 
Volatility -0.455*** -0.583*** 
 (0.092) (0.049) 
Constant -5.825*** -5.523*** 
 (0.697) (0.356) 
Observations 116051 100971 
Adjusted/ Pseudo R2 0.158 0.191 
Year and Industry Fixed Effects Yes Yes 
 
 
  

=== PAGE 63 ===
61 
 
 Panel B  
 1st Stage                    2nd Stage 
 (1) (2) (3) 
  Stock Split Earnings Guidance 
Stockacq 0.001***   
 (0.000)   
IV  0.783*** 0.421** 
  (0.211) (0.178) 
Leverage -0.013*** -0.014*** -0.027*** 
 (0.002) (0.004) (0.007) 
Δ Leverage -0.002 0.018*** -0.006 
 (0.003) (0.002) (0.008) 
Market-to-Book 0.006*** 0.002* 0.004*** 
 (0.001) (0.001) (0.002) 
Firm Size 0.009*** 0.004** 0.009*** 
 (0.001) (0.002) (0.002) 
Ind_Stock_Return 0.018*** 0.008** -0.022*** 
 (0.001) (0.004) (0.006) 
Volatility 0.016*** -0.005 -0.032*** 
 (0.002) (0.004) (0.008) 
Constant -0.032*** 0.013 -0.709*** 
 (0.011) (0.023) (0.033) 
Observations 118208 118208 101291 
Year Fixed Effects Yes Yes Yes 
F-Stats 31.60 
Adjusted R2 0.065 
  

=== PAGE 64 ===
62 
 
Table 9: Stock Liquidity and Acquirer’s Announcement Returns in Stock Deals 
This table presents coefficient estimates from OLS regressions that examine the effect of stock liquidity on the 
acquirer’s three-day [ -1, 1] cumulative abnormal return s around the announcements of stock acquisition involving 
public targets . The liquidity measure used in each regression, indicated at the top of the table, is the difference 
between the acquirer’s and the target’s liquidity  (Relative Liquidity ). Other explanatory variables are defined in 
Appendix. Year and industry (defined based on three -digit SIC codes) fixed effect are included in all regressions. 
Robust standard errors are clustered by industry and reported in parentheses.  *, **, and *** indicate significance at 
10%, 5% and 1% respectively. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 (1) (2) (3) 
 AMH Spread Turnover 
Relative Liquidity 0.004*** 0.006** 0.013*** 
 (0.001) (0.003) (0.004) 
Runup -0.037*** -0.037*** -0.039*** 
 (0.012) (0.012) (0.012) 
Tender Offer 0.025 0.025 0.025 
 (0.021) (0.021) (0.021) 
Competing Bid 0.003 0.001 -0.002 
 (0.015) (0.014) (0.014) 
Related Deal 0.001 0.000 0.001 
 (0.007) (0.007) (0.007) 
Volatility -0.049** -0.051** -0.061*** 
 (0.024) (0.024) (0.022) 
Market-to-Book_a -0.004*** -0.004*** -0.004*** 
 (0.001) (0.001) (0.001) 
Leverage_a 0.033** 0.035** 0.033** 
 (0.015) (0.014) (0.014) 
Market-to-Book_t 0.000*** 0.000*** 0.000*** 
 (0.000) (0.000) (0.000) 
Leverage_t 0.000 -0.003 -0.003 
 (0.010) (0.010) (0.010) 
Constant -0.044*** -0.038*** -0.036** 
 (0.014) (0.014) (0.016) 
Observations 1433 1433 1433 
Adjusted R2 0.129 0.125 0.135 
Year and Ind. Fixed Effects Yes Yes Yes 

=== PAGE 65 ===
63 
 
Appendix A: Variable Definitions 
A.1. Key variables 
A.1.1. Stock liquidity 
      We use three different measures of liquidity in our analysis that are  common in the literature. 
The first is Amihud’s (2002) Illiquidity ratio. It is defined as the natural logarithm of AvgILLIQ X 
109 where AvgILLIQ is the yearly average of illiquidity, which is measured as the absolute return 
divided by dollar trading volume: 
 𝐴𝑣𝑔𝐼𝐿𝐿𝐼𝑄𝑖,𝑡 =  1
𝐷𝑎𝑦𝑠𝑖,𝑡
 ∑ |𝑅𝑖,𝑡,𝑑|
𝐷𝑜𝑙𝑉𝑜𝑙𝑖,𝑡,𝑑
𝐷𝑎𝑦𝑠𝑖,𝑡
𝑑=1
. 
Here Daysi,t is the number of valid observation days for stock i in fiscal year t, and Ri,t,d and 
DolVoli,t,d are the daily return and daily dollar trading volume , respectively, for stock i on day d 
of fiscal year t. This measure reflects the average stock price sensitivity to one dollar trading 
volume. Higher AvgILLIQ is interpreted as lower stock liquidity. In our analysis, we take a minus 
of the Amihud’s Illiquidity ratio so that it measures a stock’s liquidity instead of illiquidity. 
      The second measure is the natural logarithm of the yearly average of daily bid-ask spread: 
𝐵𝑖𝑑 − 𝐴𝑠𝑘 𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑖,𝑡 = 1
𝐷𝑎𝑦𝑠𝑖,𝑡
∑ 𝐴𝑠𝑘𝑖,𝑡,𝑑 − 𝐵𝑖𝑑𝑖,𝑡,𝑑
(𝐴𝑠𝑘𝑖,𝑡,𝑑 + 𝐵𝑖𝑑𝑖,𝑡,𝑑)
2
𝐷𝑎𝑦𝑠𝑖,𝑡
𝑑=1
 
where Daysi,t is the number of valid observation days for stock i in fiscal year t, and Aski,t,d and 
Bidi,t,d are the closing ask and bid prices of stock i on day d of fiscal year t. Higher Bid -Ask 
Spread is interpreted as lower stock liquidity. Like the Amihud’s Illiquidity ratio, we take a 
minus of Bid-Ask Spreadi,t so that it measures a stock’s liquidity instead of illiquidity. 
      The third measure is the yearly average of monthly trading turnover, which is calculated as: 

=== PAGE 66 ===
64 
 
𝑇𝑢𝑟𝑛𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑖,𝑡 = 1
12 ∑ 𝑉𝑜𝑙𝑖,𝑡,𝑚
𝑆ℎ𝑟𝑜𝑢𝑡𝑖,𝑡,𝑚
12
𝑚=1
 
where Voli,t,m and Shrouti,t,m are the number of shares traded and shares outstanding of firm i in 
month m of fiscal year t, respectively. 
A.1.2. Some major deal characteristics 
      Stock acquisition: In the literature, definitions of stock deals vary across studies. For example, 
some define deals paid by 100% of stocks and deals paid with a combination of stock and cash as 
“stock” deals (e .g., Chang, 1998; Officer, Poulsen, Stegemoller, 2009). In other studies, “stock” 
deals are defined as those containing only stock, and “cash” deals are defined similarly (e.g., 
Moeller, Schlingemann, and Stulz, 2007). We take two approaches in the examina tion of 
payment method. First, we take the proportion of stock paid in each deal. Second, we define a 
deal as “stock” deal if the proportion of stock in the total payment is no less than 60% (i.e., the 
majority of the payment is in the form of stock) and a deal as “cash” deal if the proportion of cash 
in the total payment is no less than 60%. In robustness checks, we also define “stock” (“cash”) 
deals as those containing stock (cash) payment only and find that our results are qualitatively 
similar. 
      Deal premium: It is the market value acquisition premium offered to the target, defined as the 
effective offer price as a percentage premium over the target firm’s market share price as of two 
days prior to the takeover announcement. 
A.2. All other variables 
 Blockholder is the number of blockholders with 5% or more stock ownership in the target 
in the quarter prior to deal announcement.  
 
 Cash is the cash and short term investments to lagged asset ratio. 
 

=== PAGE 67 ===
65 
 
 Cash/Deal is the amount of acquirer cash plus marketable securities normalized by the 
value of the merger or acquisition. 
 
 Competing_Bid is a binary variable that takes one if there was a competing bid, and zero 
otherwise. 
 
 Firm Size is the natural log of book value of total assets. 
 
 Firm's Age is the age of the firm in years. 
 
 Ind_stock_return is the annual stock return in the prior year,  adjusted for the mean 
contemporaneous industry stock return. 
 
 𝐾𝑍𝑖,𝑡 = −1.002
𝐶𝐹𝑖,𝑡
𝐴𝑇𝑖,𝑡−1
− 39.398
𝐷𝑖𝑣𝑖,𝑡
𝐴𝑇𝑖,𝑡−1
− 1.315
𝐶𝑖,𝑡
𝐴𝑇𝑖,𝑡−1
+ 3.319𝐿𝑒𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑖,𝑡 + 0.283𝑄𝑖,𝑡 
 
where cash flow (CF) is the sum of income before extraordinary items and depreciation 
and amortization, dividends (DIV) are measured as common and preferred dividends, C is 
cash and short term investments 
 
 Leverage is the debt to assets ratio. 
 
 Ln(1+guidance) is the natural logarithm of one plus the frequency of earnings guidance 
forecasts provided by the management. 
 
 Ln(deal size) is the natural logarithm of value of transaction. 
 
 Log Number of Analysts is the natural logarithm of one plus maximum number of analysts 
following the stock for the year. It is coded as 0 if there is no coverage from I/B/E/S. 
 
 Market-to-Book is the market value to book value of total assets. 
 
 NYSE Dummy is a binary variable that is equal to one if the firm is listed in the New York 
Stock Exchange and zero otherwise. 
 
 R&D is a binary variable that takes one if the R&D expenditure to lagged assets is greater 
than zero, and zero otherwise. 
 
 Related Deal is a binary variable that takes one if both firms (acquirer and target) are from 
the same two-digit SIC code; and zero otherwise. 
 
 Relative Liquidity is the simple difference between the acquirer’s and the target’s stock 
liquidity. 
 
 Relative Size  is the natural logarithm of target market capitalization a month prior to 
acquisition divided by bidder market capitalization a month prior to acquisition. 

=== PAGE 68 ===
66 
 
 
 ROA is the earnings before extraordinary items to lagged asset ratio. 
 
 Runup is the firm’s market-adjusted cumulative return for the 90 trading days [-120, -30] 
prior to the acquisition announcement date. 
 
 Short horizon is the ratio of shareholding by short-term investors to shareholding by long-
term investors in the quarter prior to the announcement date. 
 
 Stock Split is a binary variable that indicates whether or not there was a stock split. 
 
 Tangibility is the net total value of property, plant and equipment, divided by total assets. 
 
 Tender Offer is a binary variable that takes a value of one if the acquirer involves a tender 
offer as reported in SDC and zero otherwise. 
 
 Volatility is the volatility in the firm’s stoc k return over the 12 months preceding the 
acquisition. 
 
  Leverage is the change in leverage from t-2 to t-1. 
 
  

=== PAGE 69 ===
67 
 
Appendix B: Robustness Checks and Ancillary Tests 
Table B.1: First Stage Estimation for Stock Liquidity 
This table presents estimates of the first -stage IV regression of stock liquidity on an indicator of end -of-May market capitalization ranking. The sample is obtained by ranking 
stocks based on their end -of-May market capitalization, as reported in CRSP, an d selecting firms ranked 701st through 1300th for each year of the sample during 1998 -2006. 
Specifically,  
𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡 = 𝛼 +  𝛽 𝑅2000𝑖𝑡 + ∑ 𝛾𝑛
𝑁
𝑛=1
 (𝐿𝑛(𝑀𝑎𝑦 𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑐𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡)𝑛 +  𝜌 𝐿𝑛(𝐽𝑢𝑛𝑒 𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑡 𝑎𝑑𝑗.  𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑚𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡 + 𝜇𝑡 + 𝜀𝑖𝑡 
where R2000 is an indicator variable that equals one if firm i’s end-of-May market capitalization is ranked beyond 1001st in year t and zero otherwise; 𝐿𝑛(𝑀𝑎𝑦 𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑐𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡 
is the natural logarithm of firm i’s end-of-May market capitalization in year t; Ln(𝐽𝑢𝑛𝑒 𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑡 𝑎𝑑𝑗.𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑐𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡 is the natural logarithm of firm i’s end-of-June float-adjusted 
market capitalization in year t, as provided by Russell. 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦 is firm i’s stock liquidity at the end of September in reconstitution year t. The liquidity measure used in each 
regression is indicated at the top of the table. *, **, and *** indicate significance at 10%, 5%, and 1%, respectively.  
 
 AMH Spread Turnover 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) 
          
R2000 0.139** 0.104** 0.101*** 0.096*** 0.082*** 0.075*** 0.023** 0.020** 0.018** 
 (0.074) (0.045) (0.030) (0.037) (0.028) (0.023) (0.012) (0.009) (0.007) 
Observations 7022 5271 5271 7022 5271 5271 7022 5271 5271 
Adjusted R2 0.542 0.518 0.518 0.735 0.737 0.737 0.040 0.047 0.047 
Bandwidth 400 300 300 400 300 300 400 300 300 
Polynomial order 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 
Controls Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year Fixed Effects Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
 
  

=== PAGE 70 ===
68 
 
Table B.2: Stock Liquidity and Likelihood of Acquisition 
This table reports estimates from the second -stage IV regression. The sample is obtained by ranking stocks based on their end -of-May market capitalization, as reported in 
CRSP, and selecting firms ranked 701st through 1300th for each year of the sample during 1998-2006. Specifically, 
𝑌𝑖𝑡 = 𝜏 +  𝜃 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡̂ + ∑ 𝜎𝑛
𝑁
𝑛=1
 (𝐿𝑛(𝑀𝑎𝑦 𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑐𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡)𝑛 +  𝜑 𝐿𝑛(𝐽𝑢𝑛𝑒 𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑡 𝑎𝑑𝑗.  𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑚𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡 +  𝜇𝑡 + 𝜔𝑖𝑡 
where Yit takes a value of one if firm i makes an acquisition in the period of July 1 st in year t to the end of next May. *, **, and *** indicate significance at 10%, 5%, and 1% 
respectively.  
 AMH Spread Turnover 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) 
          
Acquirer’s  0.182*** 0.207*** 0.242*** 0.262*** 0.262** 0.327** 1.097*** 1.096*** 1.342*** 
Liquidity (0.041) (0.081) (0.076) (0.059) (0.105) (0.131) (0.227) (0.383) (0.430) 
Observations 7022 5271 5271 7022 5271 5271 7022 5271 5271 
Bandwidth 400 300 300 400 300 300 400 300 300 
Polynomial order 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 
Controls Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year Fixed Effects Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE 71 ===
69 
 
Table B.3: Stock Liquidity and Likelihood of Stock Acquisition 
This table reports estimates from the second -stage IV regression. The sample is obtained by ranking stocks based on their end -of-May market capitalization, as reported in 
CRSP, and selecting firms ranked 701st through 1300th for each year of the sample during 1998-2006. Specifically, 
𝑌𝑖𝑡 = 𝜏 +  𝜃 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡̂ + ∑ 𝜎𝑛
𝑁
𝑛=1
 (𝐿𝑛(𝑀𝑎𝑦 𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑐𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡)𝑛 +  𝜑 𝐿𝑛(𝐽𝑢𝑛𝑒 𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑡 𝑎𝑑𝑗.  𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑚𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡 +  𝜇𝑡 + 𝜔𝑖𝑡 
where Yit takes a value of one if firm i makes a stock acquisition in the period of July 1st in year t to the end of next May. *, **, and *** indicate significance at 10%, 5%, and 
1% respectively.  
 AMH Spread Turnover 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) 
          
Acquirer’s   0.164*** 0.193*** 0.208*** 0.236*** 0.244*** 0.280*** 0.989*** 1.022*** 1.149*** 
Liquidity (0.044) (0.041) (0.047) (0.018) (0.040) (0.085) (0.230) (0.165) (0.241) 
Observations 7022 5271 5271 7022 5271 5271 7022 5271 5271 
Bandwidth 400 300 300 400 300 300 400 300 300 
Polynomial order 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 
Controls Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year Fixed Effects Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE 72 ===
70 
 
Table B.4: Stock liquidity and the Fraction of Acquisition Payment in Stock 
This table reports estimates from the second -stage IV regression. The sample is first obtained by ranking stocks based on their end -of-May market capitalization, as reported in 
CRSP, and selecting firms ranked 701st through 1300th for each year of the sample during 1998-2006 that were involved in acquisitions of public targets. Specifically, 
𝑌𝑖𝑡 = 𝜏 +  𝜃 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡̂ + ∑ 𝜎𝑛
𝑁
𝑛=1
 (𝐿𝑛(𝑀𝑎𝑦 𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑐𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡)𝑛 +  𝜑 𝐿𝑛(𝐽𝑢𝑛𝑒 𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑡 𝑎𝑑𝑗.  𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑚𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡 +  𝜇𝑡 + 𝜔𝑖𝑡 
where Yit is the fraction of deal payment in stock if a deal involving a public target occurs during the period of July 1 st of the reconstitution year to the end of next May. 
 AMH Spread Turnover 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) 
          
Acquirer’s  0.439** 0.348** 0.267 0.368*** 0.252*** 0.205 0.017*** 0.014*** 0.009 
Liquidity (0.187) (0.137) (0.222) (0.044) (0.102) (0.145) (0.006) (0.005) (0.007) 
Observations 379 278 278 379 278 278 379 278 278 
Bandwidth 400 300 300 400 300 300 400 300 300 
Polynomial order 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 
Controls Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year Fixed Effects Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
 
  

=== PAGE 73 ===
71 
 
Table B.5: Stock Liquidity and Deal Premium Paid 
This table reports estimates from the second -stage IV regression. The sample is first obtained by ranking stocks based on their end -of-May market capitalization, as reported in 
CRSP, and selecting firms ranked 701st through 1300th for each year of the sample during 1998-2006 that were involved in acquisitions of public targets. Specifically,  
𝑌𝑖𝑡 = 𝜏 +  𝜃 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡̂ + ∑ 𝜎𝑛
𝑁
𝑛=1
 (𝐿𝑛(𝑀𝑎𝑦 𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑐𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡)𝑛 + 𝜑 𝐿𝑛(𝐽𝑢𝑛𝑒 𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑎𝑡 𝑎𝑑𝑗.  𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑚𝑎𝑝)𝑖𝑡 + 𝜌 𝐷𝑒𝑎𝑙 𝐶ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑖𝑐𝑠𝑖𝑡 + 𝜇𝑡 + 𝜂𝑖𝑡 
where Y it is the deal premium paid for a deal involving a public target that occurs during the period of July 1 st of the reconstitution year to the end of next May. Deal 
Characteristics included are Related Deal, Competing Bid, Tender Offer, and ln(deal size). *, **, and *** indicate significance at 10%, 5% and 1% respectively. 
Panel A 
 AMH Spread Turnover 
 Stock Cash Stock Cash Stock Cash 
       
Acquirer’s Liquidity -0.090*** 0.518 -0.166*** 0.225 -0.005*** 0.023 
 (0.030) (0.462) (0.063) (0.173) (0.002) (0.016) 
Observations 169 184 169 184 169 184 
Bandwidth 400 400 400 400 400 400 
Polynomial order 1 1 1 1 1 1 
Controls Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year Fixed Effects Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Panel B 
 AMH Spread Turnover 
 Stock Cash Stock Cash Stock Cash 
       
Acquirer’s Liquidity -0.158*** 1.935 -0.379** 0.530 -0.008*** 0.025** 
 (0.046) (4.732) (0.161) (0.344) (0.002) (0.010) 
Observations 126 131 126 131 126 131 
Bandwidth 300 300 300 300 300 300 
Polynomial order 3 3 3 3 3 3 
Controls Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year Fixed Effects Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
  

=== PAGE 74 ===
72 
 
Table B.6: The Effect of Stock Split and Earnings Guidance on Stock Liquidity 
This table shows that  stock split and frequency of earnings guidance forecasts provided by the management tend to 
increase a firm’s stock liquidity. It presents estimates from regressions where the dependent variable is a measure of 
the firm’s stock liquidity and the independe nt variables of interest are (1) a dummy variable that indicates whether or 
not there was a stock split in the prior year (in columns 1 -3), and (2) logarithm of one plus the frequency of earnings 
guidance forecasts provided by the management in the previou s fiscal year (column 4 -6). The liquidity measures 
used in each regression is indicated at the top of the table. Other explanatory variables are defined in Appendix. All 
these independent variables are lagged by one year. Year and industry (defined based on three-digit SIC codes) fixed 
effects are also included. Robust standard errors are clustered by industry and reported in parentheses. *, **, and *** 
indicate significance at 10%, 5%, and 1% respectively.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 AMH Spread Turnover AMH Spread Turnover 
       
Stock Split Dummy 0.209*** 0.048** 0.079***    
 (0.048) (0.020) (0.021)    
Ln(1+guidance)    0.433*** 0.181*** 0.081*** 
    (0.030) (0.010) (0.008) 
R&D 0.089 0.023 0.033** 0.075 0.020 0.031* 
 (0.064) (0.018) (0.015) (0.065) (0.019) (0.016) 
Firm Size 0.992*** 0.301*** 0.085*** 0.971*** 0.294*** 0.086*** 
 (0.027) (0.011) (0.007) (0.027) (0.011) (0.007) 
Leverage -1.140*** -0.458*** -0.029 -1.084*** -0.457*** -0.021 
 (0.134) (0.060) (0.040) (0.144) (0.068) (0.044) 
Cash 0.220*** 0.095*** 0.107*** 0.213*** 0.101*** 0.106*** 
 (0.031) (0.010) (0.011) (0.031) (0.013) (0.011) 
Market-Book 0.451*** 0.141*** 0.068*** 0.431*** 0.138*** 0.069*** 
 (0.026) (0.008) (0.007) (0.023) (0.008) (0.007) 
ROA 0.338*** 0.224*** 0.124*** 0.266*** 0.213*** 0.125*** 
 (0.060) (0.033) (0.025) (0.054) (0.034) (0.027) 
Tangibility -0.330** -0.098* -0.115*** -0.297** -0.091 -0.108*** 
 (0.138) (0.053) (0.037) (0.141) (0.057) (0.040) 
NYSE Dummy 0.293 0.143** 0.005 0.653*** 0.271*** 0.046 
 (0.212) (0.068) (0.043) (0.236) (0.086) (0.053) 
Firm’s Age 0.003 -0.001 -0.009*** 0.003 -0.002 -0.008*** 
 (0.004) (0.001) (0.001) (0.003) (0.001) (0.001) 
Volatility -1.212*** -0.473*** 0.376*** -1.070*** -0.418*** 0.446*** 
 (0.063) (0.033) (0.021) (0.069) (0.034) (0.025) 
Log Number of Analysts 0.433*** 0.171*** 0.063*** 0.391*** 0.161*** 0.056*** 
 (0.021) (0.009) (0.009) (0.023) (0.011) (0.010) 
Constant -10.639*** 2.179*** -0.423*** -10.752*** 1.859*** -0.513*** 
 (0.144) (0.063) (0.058) (0.156) (0.079) (0.056) 
Observations 91851 91851 91851 78401 78401 78401 
Adjusted R2 0.753 0.798 0.304 0.754 0.799 0.311 
Year and Industry Fixed 
Effects 
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 

=== PAGE 75 ===
73 
 
Table B.7: Subsample Tests to Address the Governance Interpretation of IV Estimation 
Results 
This table presents results  on a subsample of Russell -sample that are obtained by repeating the first-stage IV 
regressions of stock liquidity on an indicator of end -of-May market capitalization ranking that are  made in Table 2  
(Panel A), the second -stage IV regressions made in Panel B of Table 3 on the effect of instrumented liquidity on the 
likelihood of acquisitions (Panel B), the second -stage IV regressions made in Panel B of Table 4 on the effect of 
instrumented liquidity on the likelihood of stock acquisitions (P anel C), the second -stage IV regressions made in 
Panel B of Table 6 on the effect of instrumented liquidity on the fraction of stock payment (Panel D), and the 
second-stage IV regressions made in Panel B of Table 7 on the effect of instrumented liquidity o n deal premiums 
(Panel E). The subsample is obtained by excluding from the original Russell -sample (firms ranked 701st through 
1300th each year based on their end -of-May market capitalization) firms ranked 1001st through 1300th each year 
that show an impro vement in corporate governance following reconstitution and firms ranked 701st through 1000th 
each year that show a decline in corporate governance following reconstitution. In particular, a firm that is ranked 
1001st through 1300th (a firm that is ranked 701st through 1000th) is dropped if any of the following holds in the 
year following reconstitution, compared with the year prior to reconstitution: (i) there is an increase (decrease) in the 
fraction of outsiders on the board; (ii) the CEO -duality role is  separated (combined); (iii) the number of proxy 
proposals submitted declines (increases). *, **, and *** indicate significance at 10%, 5% and 1% respectively. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Panel A: First Stage Estimates 
 AMH Spread Turnover 
R2000 0.045* 0.063*** 0.016*** 
 (0.027) (0.026) (0.006) 
Observations 3386 3386 3386 
Adjusted R2 0.520 0.743 0.044 
Bandwidth 300 300 300 
Polynomial order 1 1 1 
Controls Yes Yes Yes 
Year Fixed Effects Yes Yes Yes 
Panel B : 2nd Stage- Likelihood of acquisition 
 AMH Spread Turnover 
Liquidity 0.728* 0.523*** 2.104*** 
 (0.408) (0.136) (0.646) 
Observations 3386 3386 3386 
Bandwidth 300 300 300 
Polynomial order 1 1 1 
Controls Yes Yes Yes 
Year Fixed Effects Yes Yes Yes 

=== PAGE 76 ===
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Panel C: 2nd Stage- Likelihood of stock acquisition  
 AMH Spread Turnover 
Liquidity 0.663* 0.476*** 1.915*** 
 (0.376) (0.126) (0.561) 
Observations 3386 3386 3386 
Bandwidth 300 300 300 
Polynomial order 1 1 1 
Controls Yes Yes Yes 
Year Fixed Effects Yes Yes Yes 
 Panel D: 2nd Stage- Fraction of acquisition payment in stock  
 AMH Spread Turnover 
Liquidity 0.323*** 0.358*** 0.017*** 
 (0.045) (0.075) (0.004) 
Observations 205 205 205 
Bandwidth 300 300 300 
Polynomial order 1 1 1 
Controls Yes Yes Yes 
Year Fixed Effects Yes Yes Yes 
Panel E: 2nd Stage- Deal premium paid 
 AMH Spread Turnover 
 Stock Cash Stock Cash Stock Cash 
       
Acquirer’s 
Liquidity 
-0.041*** 0.484 -0.073*** 0.371 -0.003*** -0.289 
 (0.010) (0.471) (0.014) (0.340) (0.001) (3.807) 
Observations 93 87 93 87 93 87 
Bandwidth 300 300 300 300 300 300 
Polynomial 
order 
1 1 1 1 1 1 
Controls Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Year Fixed 
Effects 
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 