                     Econometrica, Vol. 84, No. 4 (July, 2016), 1441–1475

              INSIDER TRADING, STOCHASTIC LIQUIDITY,
                     AND EQUILIBRIUM PRICES

            BY PIERRE COLLIN-DUFRESNE AND VYACHESLAV FOS1
       We extend Kyle’s (1985) model of insider trading to the case where noise trading
    volatility follows a general stochastic process. We determine conditions under which,
    in equilibrium, price impact and price volatility are both stochastic, driven by shocks
    to uninformed volume even though the fundamental value is constant. The volatility of
    price volatility appears ‘excessive’ because insiders choose to trade more aggressively
    (and thus more information is revealed) when uninformed volume is higher and price
    impact is lower. This generates a positive relation between price volatility and trading
    volume, giving rise to an endogenous subordinate stochastic process for prices.

       KEYWORDS: Kyle model, insider trading, asymmetric information, liquidity, price
    impact, market depth, stochastic volatility, volume, subordinate process, execution
    costs, continuous time.



                                    1. INTRODUCTION
IN HIS SEMINAL CONTRIBUTION, Kyle (1985) derived the equilibrium price dy-
namics in a model where a large trader possesses long-lived private informa-
tion about the value of a stock that will be revealed at some known date, and
optimally trades continuously into the stock to maximize his expected profits.
Risk-neutral market makers try to infer from aggregate order flow the informa-
tion possessed by the insider. Because order flow is also driven by uninformed
‘noise traders,’ who trade solely for liquidity purposes, prices are not fully re-
vealing. Instead, prices respond linearly to order flow. Kyle’s lambda, which
measures the equilibrium price impact of order flow, is constant in the model.
Price volatility is also constant and independent of noise trading volatility. It
depends only on the prior uncertainty about fundamentals.
   In this paper, we generalize Kyle’s (1985) model to allow the volatility of
noise trading to change stochastically over time. Empirically, it is clear that
trading volume and its volatility fluctuate widely over time. Given the amount
of resources spent by market participants (witness, in particular, the growth of
the high-frequency industry) to separate the component of order flow that is

   1
     We thank Bruno Biais, Kerry Back, Darrell Duffie, Thierry Foucault, Gur Huberman, Larry
Glosten, Wei Jiang, Semyon Malamud, Ioanid Rosu (WFA discussant), Norman Schuerhoff,
James Thompson (NFA discussant), and seminar participants at Bocconi University, Copenhagen
Business School, Cass Business School, Duke University, ETH Zurich, University of Helsinki,
Kellogg School of Management, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, ESADE, LSE, LBS,
Unversity of Lugano, NYU, Stanford Business School, Haas School of Business, The Swedish
House of Finance, University of Toronto, University of Toulouse, 9th Annual Cowles General
Equilibrium Conference, AFFI 2013 (Best paper award), China International Conference (TCW
2013 Best paper award), the WFA 2014 Annual Meetings, the SOFIE 2015 meetings in Aarhus,
the SFI-Finrisk meetings and, especially, Julien Hugonnier, for many helpful comments.

© 2016 The Econometric Society                                        DOI: 10.3982/ECTA10789
                                                                                        14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
1442                    P. COLLIN-DUFRESNE AND V. FOS

informed from that which is uninformed, it seems useful to understand how
stochastic noise trading volatility impacts equilibrium price dynamics and liq-
uidity. We ask the following questions. How does the informed investor adapt
his optimal trading strategy to account for stochastic volatility of uninformed
trading volume? How are the equilibrium price and volatility dynamics affected
by shocks to the volatility of uninformed trading volume? How are adverse se-
lection costs paid by uninformed traders affected?
   Below, we characterize the equilibrium for general noise trading volatility
dynamics.
   First, we find that the equilibrium price follows a new class of bridge process
that converges almost surely at maturity to the value known ex ante only to the
insider. This guarantees that all private information will have been incorpo-
rated into the equilibrium price at maturity and generalizes the result proved
in Back (1992) that the equilibrium price in the continuous-time Kyle model
follows a standard (i.e., constant volatility) Brownian Bridge. Under plausi-
ble conditions which we derive in the paper, the equilibrium price volatility is
stochastic. In that case, our model generates ‘excess stochastic volatility,’ since
non-payoff-relevant shocks that affect noise trading volatility may affect the
stock price volatility because the market maker rationally anticipates that in
periods where noise traders are more active, the informed trader is more ag-
gressive. This generates a positive volume-volatility relation, consistent with
the empirical evidence reported in Gallant, Rossi, and Tauchen (1992) and
different from the standard Kyle model, where price volatility is constant and
independent of the level of noise trading volatility. The equilibrium price is a
subordinate process with an endogenous time-change process driven by unin-
formed volume volatility as proposed by Clark (1973) and consistent with the
results in Lamoureux and Lastrapes (1990) that ARCH effects tend to disap-
pear when volume is included in the variance dynamics.
   Second, we find that the optimal trading strategy for the insider is to trade
proportionally to the undervaluation of the asset at a rate that is inversely re-
lated to price impact but increasing in a measure of the current ‘state of liq-
uidity’ that we identify below. We thus show that it is optimal for the insider
to ‘time liquidity.’ This is consistent with the empirical evidence in Collin-
Dufresne and Fos (2015), who documented, using data from SEC filings, that
informed activist-shareholder investors trade more aggressively when abnor-
mal volume is higher and measured price impact is lower.
   Third, we find that price impact is stochastic and negatively correlated with
uninformed volume volatility. In fact, we find that price impact is a submartin-
gale, expected to increase over time. This contrasts our model from much
of the previous literature. In the original Kyle model, price impact is con-
stant. In extensions of that model (Back (1992), Back and Pedersen (1998),
Baruch (2002), Back and Baruch (2004)), price impact is either a martingale
or a supermartingale. The intuition why price impact is a submartingale in our
model is that, with stochastic noise trading volatility, the insider has a ‘liquidity
                                                                                                14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
       INSIDER TRADING, STOCHASTIC LIQUIDITY, EQUILIBRIUM PRICES                       1443

timing’ option to wait for higher noise trading volatility to trade. In equilib-
rium, price impact must increase on average to entice the insider to trade early
and give up his option to wait for better liquidity states.
   The prediction that price impact is expected to rise on average seems con-
sistent with the empirical evidence in Madhavan, Richardson, and Roomans
(1997) who found that estimated execution costs rise significantly on average
over the day.
   Last, in our model the rate of price discovery increases when noise trad-
ing volatility increases and price impact decreases, which is different from the
standard Kyle model, where private information is revealed at a constant rate
that is independent of the level of noise trading volatility. This also implies
that aggregate execution (or slippage) costs incurred by uninformed liquidity
traders are stochastic and path-dependent in our model, unlike in Kyle (1985)
or Back and Pedersen (1998), where unconditional expected execution costs
always equal realized costs path-wise. As we show below, when price impact
is stochastic, then aggregate execution costs are poorly proxied by the time-
average of price impact, which is often used in practice to measure such costs.

                                    Related Literature
   This paper is related to a long list of papers that study the impact of asym-
metric information on asset prices, volatility, volume, and market liquidity.
Admati and Pfleiderer (1988), Foster and Viswanathan (1990, 1993) first pro-
posed extensions of the Kyle model to dynamic economies with myopic agents
(essentially a sequence of one-period Kyle models where agents only trade on
short-lived information), where they generated time variation in price volatil-
ity and trading volume. In their models, price volatility changes because new
(short-lived) private information is produced every period in response to de-
terministic changes in noise trading volatility.
   Foster and Viswanathan (1995) developed and empirically tested a model
with stochastic variation in noise trading volume to study the joint behavior
of price volatility, volume, and price impact.2 However, as they pointed out
(p. 380), “an important limitation of [their] analysis is that they assume that
information is short-lived,” as in Admati and Pfleiderer (1988) and Foster and
Viswanathan (1990). Our model provides the more general characterization
with long-lived information.
   Back and Pedersen (1998) (BP) extended Kyle’s original model to allow for
deterministically changing noise trading volatility to capture intra-day patterns
(clustering) of liquidity trading, effectively analyzing a non-myopic version of
Admati and Pfleiderer (1988). They obtained that price volatility follows the
same deterministic pattern as noise trading. However, because they assumed

   2
     Watanabe (2008) also captured GARCH features in equilibrium prices, by directly incorpo-
rating stochastic volatility in the (short-lived) private information process.
                                                                                      14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
1444                    P. COLLIN-DUFRESNE AND V. FOS

noise trading is deterministic, their model cannot generate any systematic pat-
terns in price impact (e.g., it is a constant in the Gaussian model). This implies
that in their model, ‘expected execution costs of liquidity traders do not depend
on the timing of their trades’ (BP, p. 387). As we show below, only if noise trad-
ing volatility is stochastic can the insider’s ‘liquidity timing’ option generate
stochastic price volatility and a nonzero correlation between price volatility,
market depth, and (uninformed) trading volume.
   Our model is also related to a large literature in financial econometrics ini-
tiated by Clark (1973), which models the price change process as subordinated
to the normal distribution, with a directing process related to ‘informed vol-
ume’ usually modeled via some latent ‘information variable’ extracted from
volume and price volatility (see Andersen (1996), Tauchen and Pitts (1983),
Richardson and Smith (1993) for discussions of the so-called MDM ‘mixture
of distributions model’).
   In our model, price follows such a subordinate process (in fact, a time-
changed Brownian motion). Interestingly, the model provides the endogenous
directing (or time-change) process as a function of the uninformed trading
volume process. In the classic MDM model, it is typically assumed that the
subordinating process is driven by an information flow variable that represents
new information arrival and that is orthogonal to uninformed volume (e.g.,
Andersen (1996)). As such, this information flow variable is latent and has to
be estimated from volume and volatility. Our model shows that even if there is
no exogenous information flow, but informed investors can strategically time
their trades, then stochastic uninformed volume will drive the directing pro-
cess and thus price volatility, albeit in a nonlinear fashion which reflects the
informed trader’s option to time his trades as a function of the “liquidity state.”
   Section 2 introduces the general model and solves for an equilibrium. Sec-
tion 3 investigates two specific cases to emphasize key features of the equilib-
rium. Section 4 discusses extensions such as more general correlation struc-
tures and the link to the MDM literature. Section 5 concludes. All proofs are
in the Appendix.

        2. INFORMED TRADING WITH STOCHASTIC LIQUIDITY SHOCKS
  We extend Kyle’s (1985) model (in the continuous-time formulation given
by Back (1992)) to allow for time-varying volatility of noise trading. As in Kyle,
we assume there is an insider trading in the stock with perfect knowledge of
the terminal value v. The insider is risk-neutral and maximizes the expectation
of his terminal profit:
                 T                       
                                    
(1)       max E      (v − Pt )θt dt FtY  v 
          θt ∈A    0

where we denote by FtY the information filtration generated by observing the
entire past history of aggregate order flow Y (which we denote by Y t = {Ys }s≤t ).
                                                                                                      14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
        INSIDER TRADING, STOCHASTIC LIQUIDITY, EQUILIBRIUM PRICES                            1445

In addition, the insider knows the actual value v of the stock, and, of course,
his own trading. Following Back (1992), we assume that the insider chooses
an absolutely continuous trading rule θ that belongs to an admissible set A =
          T
{θ st E[ 0 θs2 ds] < ∞}.3
  The market maker is also risk-neutral, but does not observe the terminal
value. Instead, he has a prior that the value v is normally distributed N(P0  Σ0 ).
The market maker observes the aggregate order flow arrival, which is the sum
of the insider’s demand and the ‘noise-trader’ demand:

(2)         dYt = θt dt + σt dZt 

where Zt is a standard Brownian motion independent of v. The market maker
absorbs the total order flow by trading against it at a price set so as to break
even on average. Since we assume the market maker is risk-neutral, equilib-
rium break-even requires that the market clearing price is
                     
(3)      Pt = E v|FtY 

   If noise trading volatility were constant, then this setup would be the Kyle–
Back model. Instead, we assume that the noise trading volatility, σt , follows a
general stochastic process. Specifically, we assume there is a (possibly discon-
tinuous) martingale W such that

            dσt
(4)             = m t σ t dt + ν t σ t dWt 
            σt
where the growth rate (m) and volatility (ν) of σ can depend on its past his-
tory, which we denote by σ t , but not on the history of Y (or Z). Further, we
assume they satisfy standard integrability requirements for the SDE to admit
a unique strong solution (e.g., Liptser and Shiryaev (2001, Theorem 4.6)). For
simplicity, we assume for now that Wt and Zt are independent, but we relax this
assumption in Section 4. The main (economic) restriction we require through-
out is that the noise trading volatility process is independent of the insider’s
private information and that it may not be Granger-caused by order flow (i.e.,
m and ν cannot depend on v or on Y t ).
  We assume that both the market maker and the insider observe the history of
σ perfectly. Since, in continuous time, observing aggregate order flow allows to

   3
     As in Kyle’s model, we assume the insider submits market orders dXt that will be filled by
the market maker at price Pt+dt = Pt + dPt . Thus, his profits are, assuming a zero risk-free rate,
T                   T                T
 0
   (v − Pt+dt ) dXt = 0 (v − Pt ) dXt − 0 dPt dXt . Back (1992) showed that it is optimal to choose
an absolutely continuous dXt = θt dt so that the second term is zero (otherwise, that term is al-
ways negative due to price impact). Note that this requires that volatility be common knowledge.
Else there could be multiple equilibria where the strategy of the insider is not absolutely contin-
uous.
                                                                                       14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
1446                       P. COLLIN-DUFRESNE AND V. FOS

measure its quadratic variation perfectly, the filtration FtY contains both histo-
ries of order flow (Y t ) and of volatility (σ t ). The assumption that market par-
ticipants observe order flow may be partially justified by the fact that volume
and order-book information are available in many markets. In the standard
Kyle model, assuming that the informed investor observes total order flow is
innocuous, since if the insider only observes equilibrium prices, he can typi-
cally recover the total order flow (and, given his own trading, the noise trading
order flow). However, when uninformed order flow has stochastic volatility,
observing only prices may not be sufficient to recover noise trading volatility,
as we give some examples below, where the equilibrium price is independent
of noise trading volatility, even though the insider’s trades depend on it.
   An equilibrium is a price process and an admissible trading strategy, (Pt  θt ),
that satisfy the market maker’s rationality condition (3) while solving the in-
sider’s optimality condition (1).
   To solve for an equilibrium, we proceed in a few steps. First, we derive the
dynamics of the stock price consistent with the market maker’s risk-neutral fil-
tering, conditional on a conjectured strategy rule followed by the insider. Then,
we solve the insider’s optimal portfolio choice problem, given the assumed dy-
namics of the equilibrium price. Finally, we show that the conjectured rule by
the market maker is indeed consistent with the insider’s optimal choice. Be-
fore stating the full theorem (proved in the Appendix), we provide a sketch of
proof to give some intuition and highlight the main differences with respect to
previous literature.
   In a linear equilibrium where the insider chooses a trading strategy of the
form θt = βt (v − Pt ) for some FtY adapted process βt , market makers will
move prices linearly with order flow:

(5)       dPt = λt dYt 

where λt = βσt Σ2 t . This follows from the usual Kalman-filter equations, which
also imply that the posterior variance for the market maker Σt = E[(v −
Pt )2 |FtY ] satisfies

(6)       dΣt = −λ2t σt2 dt

   We conjecture that the value function of the insider is quadratic of the form
              2
Jt = (v−P2λt )t +Σt . Then, applying Itô’s rule and using (5) and (6) above, we find

          dJt + (v − Pt )θt dt
                (v − Pt )2 + Σt 1                 1
            =                  d − (v − Pt ) dPt d − (v − Pt )σt dZt 
                      2         λt                λt
                                                                                                       14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
        INSIDER TRADING, STOCHASTIC LIQUIDITY, EQUILIBRIUM PRICES                            1447

  It follows that if we can find a market depth process ( λ1t ) that is (i) a martin-
gale (E[ λ1t ] = 0), and (ii) independent of price changes (dPt d λ1t = 0), then our
conjectured value function satisfies
                    T                    
            J0 = E      (v − Ps )θs ds + JT 
                       0

Since JT ≥ 0, this implies that J0 will be the optimal value function if there
exists a trading strategy θt∗ such that PT = v a.s. (which implies JT = 0).4 Theo-
rem 1 below establishes that such a strategy exists. Note that it implies a third
restriction on the market depth process, namely that (iii) the equilibrium is
fully revealing at T (ΣT = 0). The new feature of our equilibrium relative to
previous literature is the characterization of the market depth process consis-
tent with conditions (i), (ii), (iii) above and given the stochastic noise trading
volatility process (4). Specifically, this requires solving a ‘forward-backward’
system:
                 
                1
(7)        E d      = 0
               λt
(8)         dΣt = −λ2t σt2 dt
given initial condition Σ0 and terminal condition ΣT = 0. The nice feature of
this system is that if we define Gt by setting λt =              Σt
                                                                 Gt
                                                                      , then the system ‘decou-
ples’:

                                σt2
(9)         E[d Gt ] = −              dt
                              2 Gt
            dΣt    σ2
(10)            = − t dt
            Σt     Gt
subject to terminal condition GT = 0 and initial condition Σ0 . Thus, the central
new feature of our equilibrium construction is this quantity Gt which solves the
‘backward’ recursive equation
                    T
                          σs2     
                                 
(11)        Gt = E             dsFtσ 
                      t 2 Gs
Using the classic interpretation of price impact as a signal to noise ratio where
signal is measured by Σt , the market’s posterior variance of v, we see that Gt

                                  T
  4
    Since JT ≥ 0, we have J0 ≥ E[ 0 (v − Ps )θs ds] for all θ and the inequality holds with equality
          ∗
for any θt such that JT = 0, which is thus optimal. The potential non-uniqueness of the optimal
strategy is pointed out in Back (1992).
                                                                                          14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
1448                           P. COLLIN-DUFRESNE AND V. FOS

measures the equilibrium noise component. It is a sufficient statistic for the
expected amount of future noise trading relevant for the insider to determine
how aggressively to trade based on his private information.
  We first establish that, under some technical conditions, there exists a unique
solution to this recursive equation.

  LEMMA 1: (i) If Wt is a Brownian motion and σt is uniformly bounded above
by σ and below by σ > 0, then there exists a bounded solution Gt to the recursive
equation (11). Further, that solution satisfies

(12)      σ 2 (T − t) ≤ Gt ≤ σ 2 (T − t)

(ii) If a bounded solution to equation (11) exists, then it is unique.

   With these results established, we can now proceed to characterize the equi-
librium trading strategy and price process in our economy. The equilibrium we
obtain, which constitutes the main result of our paper, is summarized in the
following theorem.

   THEOREM 1: If there exists a bounded solution to equation (11) and if σt is
uniformly bounded above by σ and below by σ > 0, then there exists an equilib-
rium where the price process has dynamics
                                             t           √
(13)      dPt = κt (v − Pt ) dt +       Σ0 e− 0 (1/2)κs ds κt dZt 

The mean-reversion rate is the stochastic process

                  σt2
(14)      κt =        
                  Gt

where Gt is the unique solution to equation (11). Note that Gt satisfies
                      T                  T                T      
                                                        1
(15)      Gt = Et              σ ds − Et
                                2
                                s                 Σs d      ≤ Et       2
                                                                      σs ds 
                          t                  t          λ s        t


The optimal strategy of the insider is
                  κt
(16)      θt∗ =      (v − Pt )
                  λt

The conditional posterior variance of v in the market maker’s filtration, Σt , is given
by
                          t
(17)      Σt = Σ0 e− 0 κu du 
                                                                                                        14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
        INSIDER TRADING, STOCHASTIC LIQUIDITY, EQUILIBRIUM PRICES                             1449

In equilibrium, price change is linear in order flow (i.e., dPt = λt dYt ) with a price
impact process given by

                     Σt
(18)        λt =        
                     Gt

The maximized expected profit of the insider is

                   (v − Pt )2 + Σt
(19)        Jt =                   
                        2λt

The unconditional expected profit of the insider (from the point of view of the
market maker) is Σ0 G0 .
   Further, Pt is a martingale with respect to the market maker’s filtration. With
respect to the insider’s filtration, Pt is a bridge process that converges in L2 and
almost surely to v at the final date T .
   Last, market depth λ1t is a martingale and thus λt is a submartingale with respect
to both the market maker’s and the insider’s filtrations.

   We now comment on several implications of the theorem. First, the equilib-
rium price follows a new class of bridge process that converges (almost surely
and in L2 ) to the value v, known ex ante only to the insider, at maturity T . This
guarantees that all private information will have been incorporated into equi-
librium prices at maturity and generalizes the result proved in Back (1992) that
the equilibrium price in the continuous-time Kyle model follows a standard
(i.e., constant volatility) Brownian Bridge. Indeed, in our model, the equilib-
rium price volatility will be stochastic if the mean-reversion rate κt is stochas-
tic. We show below that a necessary condition for this is that the growth rate
(mt ) of noise trading volatility is stochastic. In that case, our model generates
a volatility of price volatility that appears ‘excessive’ since shocks to noise trad-
ing volatility affect price volatility even if they are unrelated to the fundamental
value, because the market maker rationally anticipates that, in periods where
noise traders are more active, the insider trades more aggressively.5
   Second, we find that the optimal trading strategy for the insider is to trade
proportionally to the undervaluation of the asset (v − Pt ) at a rate that is in-
versely related to her price impact (λt ) but increasing in the current ‘state of
liquidity’ as measured by how large the current noise trading variance is rel-
                                                          σ2
ative to the expected noise trading variance (κt = Gtt ). The latter quantity re-
duces to the inverse of the remaining time horizon ( T 1−t ) in the original Kyle

  5
    Of course, since market makers are risk-neutral, total integrated price volatility is always tied
                                T
to fundamentals in our model as 0 (dPt )2 = Σ0 a.s.
                                                                                                        14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
1450                         P. COLLIN-DUFRESNE AND V. FOS

model when σt is constant and, more generally, when σt is a martingale. How-
ever, the idea that the insider trades at a deterministic rate inversely related to
the remaining time horizon T − t does not hold outside these specific cases.
   Third, our expression for the price impact generalizes both Kyle’s and BP’s
result that price impact (the inverse of market depth) is a signal to noise ra-
tio. The signal is measured as in the previous papers by the posterior variance
of the liquidation value. But interestingly, the relevant measure of noise now
solves the recursive equation (11), the solution of which is strictly smaller than
the expected remaining variance of noise trading when price impact is stochas-
tic.
   Fourth, in our model, market depth is a martingale and thus price impact is
a submartingale, expected to increase over time. This contrasts our framework
from much of the previous literature. In the original Kyle model, price impact is
constant. In extensions of that model Back (1992), Back and Pedersen (1998),
Baruch (2002), Back and Baruch (2004), Caldentey and Stacchetti (2010), price
impact is either a martingale or a supermartingale. The intuition why price
impact is a submartingale in our model is that, with stochastic noise trading
volatility, the insider has an option to wait for better liquidity (i.e., higher noise
trading volatility) to trade. In equilibrium, price impact must increase on aver-
age to entice the insider to trade early and give up his option to wait for better
liquidity states.6
   Fifth, since in equilibrium dΣt = −dPt2 , a high rate of information arrival im-
plies high stock price volatility. When stock price volatility is stochastic in our
model, it is positively correlated (in changes) with noise trading volatility. That
is, the rate of price discovery increases when noise trading volatility increases.
This is very different from the standard Kyle model, where price volatility is
constant and independent of noise trading volatility, and where private infor-
mation is revealed at a constant rate that is independent of the level of noise
trading volatility.7
   Sixth, in our model, unconditional profits of the informed investor depend
on how much private information remains to be released to the market and
on the total expected amount of noise trading as measured by the solution

   6
     In Kyle (1985), Back (1992), and Back and Pedersen (1998), price impact is constant or a
martingale, for else the insider would concentrate all his trading in the period where trading costs
are expected to be lowest. In contrast, in Baruch (2002) and Back and Baruch (2004), Kyle’s
lambda is a supermartingale because the insider has an incentive to trade earlier (because the
horizon is random or because he is risk-averse). Foster and Viswanathan (1996) and Back, Cao,
and Willard (2000) may also generate an increase in the deterministic price impact, at least near
the end of the trading horizon, because of competition among multiple informed traders (we
thank a referee for pointing this out).
   7
     Note that in Admati and Pfleiderer (1988) or in Back and Pedersen (1998), price volatility
is also positively related to the deterministic path of noise trading volatility. We discuss the dif-
ference due to the presence of unexpected shocks in noise trading volatility in detail in the next
section.
                                                                                         14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
       INSIDER TRADING, STOCHASTIC LIQUIDITY, EQUILIBRIUM PRICES                1451

to the recursive equation for G0 , which is strictly less than the total expected
noise trader variance if price impact is stochastic (i.e., whenever noise trading
volatility is stochastic). It follows that stochastic noise trading volatility reduces
the unconditional expected profits of the informed trader relative to an econ-
omy with the same total average but constant noise trading variance.
  Seventh, aggregate execution or slippage costs incurred by uninformed liq-
uidity traders, which can be defined (see Appendix A.4) by:
           T                   T
(20)            σt dZt dPt =         λt σt2 dt
           0                    0


are stochastic and path-dependent in our model, unlike in Kyle and BP, for
example, where unconditional expected execution costs always equal realized
costs path-wise.
  As we show below, when price impact is stochastic, then aggregate execution
costs are poorly proxied by the time-average of price impact, which is often
used in practice to measure such costs.
  We now consider two specific noise trading volatility processes to further
emphasize important features of the equilibrium.


         3. TRADING VOLUME, PRICE VOLATILITY, AND PRICE IMPACT
   As is clear from Theorem 1, much of the characterization of the equilib-
rium depends on Gt , which affects equilibrium price volatility and price im-
pact. As we show below, a crucial distinction is whether the growth rate (mt ) of
noise trading volatility is stochastic. Only in that case can the model generate
stochastic price volatility (in addition to stochastic price impact).


            3.1. Deterministic Growth Rate of Noise Trading Volatility
   Suppose that the growth rate (mt ) of the noise trading volatility process in
equation (4) is a deterministic process, but that its volatility may be stochas-
tic with general form ν(t σ t ). Then we can derive an explicit solution for the
solution Gt (which does not require σt to be uniformly bounded or Wt to be a
Brownian motion). With this solution in hand, we can derive all the equilibrium
quantities as in Theorem 1 (even though we do not require a uniform upper or
lower bound on σt ). We summarize the results in the following theorem.

   THEOREM 2: If the expected growth rate of noise trading volatility (mt ) is de-
terministic such that
                T 
                       u
(21)      Bt =      e t 2ms ds du
                  t
                                                                                          14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
1452                             P. COLLIN-DUFRESNE AND V. FOS

is bounded for all t ∈ [0 T ], then the solution to equation (11) is

(22)        Gt = σt2 Bt 

Note that
                    T
                                      
                                                    T         
                                       t 2                     
            Gt =         E σs |σ             ds ≤ E        σ dsσ t 
                                                            2
                                                            s
                     t                                 t

In that case, the mean-reversion rate from equation (14) becomes deterministic
(κt = B1t ) and thus from equation (17), private information flows into prices deter-
ministically irrespective of the magnitude of shocks to noise trading volatility (νt ).
Stock price dynamics are given by
                     1                  t
(23)        dPt =       (v − Pt ) dt + e 0 ms ds σv dZt 
                     Bt                  
                                                  σP (t)


where we define σv2 = ΣB0 . In particular, stock price volatility is a deterministic
                          0
function which depends only on the unconditional expected path of noise trad-
ing volatility:
                               
(24)       σP (t) = λ0 E σt |F0σ 

In equilibrium, price impact is given by
                    t       σv
(25)        λt = e 0 ms ds      
                             σt
From equation (16), the optimal trading strategy of the insider is
                    1
(26)        θt =         
                   λt Bt
The unconditional expected trading rate of the insider is
                                  t          σ0 (v − P0 )
(27)        E[θt |v F0 ] = e 0 2ms ds                     
                                              σv    B0
The unconditional expected profit at time zero of the insider is σv σ0 B0 .

   As expected, the model reduces to the continuous-time Kyle model also de-
rived in Back (1992) when σt = σ is constant, in which case mt = νt = 0 and
thus Bt = T − t. In that case, price volatility is constant equal to σv and price
impact is constant equal to λ = σσv , where σv2 = ΣT0 is the annualized variance of
the market maker’s prior. Note, in particular, that price volatility is indepen-
dent of the level of noise trading volatility in the Kyle benchmark.
                                                                                         14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
      INSIDER TRADING, STOCHASTIC LIQUIDITY, EQUILIBRIUM PRICES                 1453

  This theorem informs us about two important special cases: when noise trad-
ing volatility is stochastic but unpredictable (i.e., when mt = 0 and νt = 0) and
when it is deterministic but not constant (i.e., mt = 0 and νt = 0) where we
recover the model of Back and Pedersen (BP 1998). We discuss both in turn.

General Unpredictable Martingale Dynamics (mt = 0, νt = 0)
   Comparing the results in Theorem 2 when mt = 0 and thus Bt = T − t to
the Kyle benchmark, we see that the equilibrium looks formally identical to
the original Kyle model where one substitutes the stochastic process σt for
the constant noise trading volatility in the original model. This implies that,
as in the original Kyle model, price volatility (and the rate at which private
information is revealed) is constant and equal to σv .
   However, both the trading strategy of the insider and the price impact are af-
fected by stochastic noise trading volatility. Price impact is inversely related to
noise trading volatility. The insider trades more aggressively when noise trad-
ing volatility increases and price impact decreases. Both effects exactly offset
to leave equilibrium prices unchanged. In fact, unconditionally, the insider ex-
pects to trade continuously a constant number of shares ( (v−P    λT
                                                                     0)
                                                                        ; see equation
(27)) per unit time as in the Kyle model even though noise trading is stochastic.
In equilibrium, then, information flows into prices at the same constant rate as
in the Kyle model. The expected profit level of the insider equals what it would
be in the Kyle model with noise trading volatility set to the constant initial noise
trading volatility σ0 .
   While it may seem intuitive that, when noise trading volatility is stochastic
but unpredictable, the equilibrium is similar to the original Kyle/Back model
in some unconditional expected sense, it is interesting to note that it is market
depth (and not price impact) that is, on average, constant in that case. That
market depth is a martingale follows directly from the fact that it is propor-
tional to noise trading volatility, which is itself a martingale in this case.

Predictable but Deterministic Dynamics (mt = 0, νt = 0)
  When volatility is deterministic but not constant, then price impact is con-
stant and equal to σσv . Price volatility is deterministic and reflects the future
                     0
realized path of noise trading volatility, which is known as of time zero in this
case without uncertainty about future noise trading volatility.

General Case (mt = 0, νt = 0)
   In general, when noise trading volatility is stochastic (ν = 0) and the growth
rate deterministic (mt = 0), then the solution combines features from both
previous cases. In particular, price impact is stochastic and negatively corre-
lated (in changes) with noise trading volatility. However, price volatility and
the posterior variance of the fundamental value (Σt ) are both deterministic.
                                                                                                    14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
1454                        P. COLLIN-DUFRESNE AND V. FOS

This is because the trading strategy of the insider has two components: one
due to market depth ( λ1t ), which is unpredictable, and one due to the current
‘liquidity state’ (κt = B1t ), which is deterministic. Price volatility only reflects
that second part.8
   Notice that price volatility is not affected by the realized shocks in noise trad-
ing volatility when mt is deterministic. Only the unconditional ex ante expected
path of noise trading volatility matters for the rate at which information flows
into prices ex post and consequently for future price volatility. Even though
price impact is stochastic, price volatility is deterministic, and the model can-
not generate any contemporaneous relation between changes in volume and
price volatility or between price impact and price volatility. To generate such
relations, we need a stochastic growth rate of noise trading volatility. The next
section presents a framework which generates both ‘true’ stochastic volatility
in prices and a meaningful correlation between price volatility and volume.


         3.2. Stochastic Expected Growth Rate of Noise Trading Volatility
  Here we consider a case where noise trading volatility follows a two-state
continuous Markov chain. This case is interesting because it introduces state-
dependent predictability and thus captures the case of a stochastic expected
growth rate in noise trading volatility, which we have shown to be crucial to
generate stochastic price volatility.9 We assume there are two fixed values σ L <
σ H with σt starting at σ0 ∈ {σ H  σ L } and with dynamics

(28)       dσt = σ H − σt dNL (t) − σt − σ L dNH (t)

where Ni (t) is a standard Poisson counting process with jump intensity ηi for
i = H L.
   Since the volatility process is Markov, we expect that the solution to the
recursive equation (11) will be of the form G(t σt ). Indeed, we find the fol-
lowing:

   THEOREM 3: The unique bounded solution to the recursive equation (11) is
given by G(t σt ) = 1{σt =σ L } GL (T − t) + 1{σt =σ H } GH (T − t), where the determin-
istic functions GL  GH satisfy the system of ODE given in equations (29)–(30)

  8
     In the Supplemental Material (Collin-Dufresne and Fos (2016b, Appendix S1)), we discuss
the optimal strategy of the insider in further detail.
   9
     In the Supplemental Material, Appendix S2, we also analyze a diffusion case with stochastic
growth rate, where specifically we assume that noise trading volatility follows a mean-reverting
diffusion process. Using an expansion approximation to the solution for G, we show how uncer-
tainty about future noise trading volatility interacts with mean-reversion to generate stochastic
price volatility.
                                                                                               14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
       INSIDER TRADING, STOCHASTIC LIQUIDITY, EQUILIBRIUM PRICES                       1455




   FIGURE 1.—Markov switching model for noise trading volatility. Parameter values are: Σ0 =
004, T = 1, ηL = ηH = 2, σ L = 02, and σ H = 04.


below, with boundary conditions GL (0) = GH (0) = 0:
                            2
(29)       GLτ (τ) = σ L         + 2ηL   GH (τ)GL (τ) − GL (τ) 
                             2
            τ (τ) = σ
           GH                    + 2ηH    GH (τ)GL (τ) − GH (τ) 
                      H
(30)

   When there are no transitions between states ηi = 0, then the solution is
Gi (τ) = (σ i )2 (T − t) for i = L H. When ηi = 0, the system of coupled dif-
ferential equations for Gi (τ) for i = L H is easily solved numerically. For
illustration, we choose a period length T = 1, ηL = ηH = 2, σ L = 02, and
σ H = 04. For these parameter values, we report in Figure 1 the pair of func-
tions (GH  GL ). As expected, GH (t) ≥ GL (t), and as maturity approaches, the
two functions converge smoothly to the lines (σ i )2 (T − t) for i = L H that
would prevail if there were no transitions between states (i.e., the state was
absorbing) and which also correspond to the original Kyle model with noise
trading volatility fixed at either the high or low level.
   From Theorem 1, we can then write price dynamics as
                                                     t
(31)       dPt = κ(t σt )(v − Pt ) dt +     Σ e− 0 (1/2)κ(sσs ) ds κ(t σt ) dZt 
                                             0                            
                                                           σP (t)


where, from its definition in equation (14), we obtain the mean-reversion rate
process

(32)       κ(t σt ) = 1{σt =σ L } κL (T − t) + 1{σt =σ H } κH (T − t)

  Price follows a mean-reverting process with stochastic volatility, where both
the strength of mean-reversion and the volatility are modulated by the volatility
                                                     i )2
state. Figure 1 shows the values of κi (T − t) = G(σ
                                                  i (T −t) for i = L H. We see that
                                                                                                14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
1456                       P. COLLIN-DUFRESNE AND V. FOS

mean-reversion is always higher in the high noise trading volatility state, where
we expect the insider to trade more aggressively and thus to contribute more to
price discovery. Further, both mean-reversion coefficients increase to infinity
as we approach maturity. Since maturity is fixed and finite, agents trade more
and more aggressively as it approaches because they do not want to leave any
money on the table. Price volatility dynamics can be calculated explictly from
its definition in equation (31):

           dσP (t)
(33)
           σP (t)
                                                                
                1 ∂ log κ(t σt )                    κH (T − t)
            =                     − κ(t σt ) dt +              − 1 dNL (t)
                2       ∂t                           κL (T − t)
                                       
                         κL (T − t)
                 +                  − 1   dNH (t)
                         κH (T − t)

Clearly, price volatility always jumps up (down) when noise trading volatility
jumps up (down), which generates a positive relation between changes in vol-
ume and volatility. However, conditional on being in a noise trading regime,
there are two counterbalancing effects driving the change in volatility. First,
informed trading reveals information and decreases the amount of remaining
uncertainty, which reduces price volatility. This is the negative term (−κ(t σt ))
in the drift of σP , which is always more negative in the high volatility state
(where more information is revealed) than in the low state. Second, due to the
finite maturity effect discussed above, the insider trades more aggressively irre-
spective of the state as maturity approaches, which tends to increase volatility.
This is the time derivative ( ∂ log κ(tσ
                                    ∂t
                                          t)
                                             ) in the drift of σP , which is always positive.
Which effect dominates quantitatively depends on the parameters.
   For illustration, we plot in Figure 2(a) four paths of the stock price volatility
σP (t) for the case where noise trading volatility switches to the high regime at
date zero and stays there until maturity (high/high), when it starts in the low
regime and stays there until maturity (low/low), and when there is a jump at t =
05 from high to low (high/low) and from low to high (low/high), respectively.
We also plot the stock price volatility in the Kyle benchmarks with constant
high or low noise trading volatility.
   Consistent with our previous discussion, price volatility starts out higher in
the high noise trading volatility state than in the low state. Subsequently, how-
ever, volatility decreases in the high regime, but increases in the low volatility
regime, which shows that the finite maturity effect discussed above dominates
in the low regime. When noise trading volatility jumps up (down), price volatil-
ity also jumps up (down), generating the positive volume volatility correlation
in changes. However, volume and volatility need not be positively correlated
                                                                                                         14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
        INSIDER TRADING, STOCHASTIC LIQUIDITY, EQUILIBRIUM PRICES                              1457




   FIGURE 2.—We graph price volatility, posterior variance, price impact, and execution costs
in the Markov chain model for noise trading volatility for four separate paths of noise trading
volatility corresponding to (1) start and stay in the high noise volatility regime until T , (2) start
and stay in the low volatility regime until T , (3) start in the high volatility regime and switch to
low volatility at t = 05, and (4) start in the low volatility regime and switch to high volatility at
t = 05. We also plot these for the Kyle-benchmark models with high or low (but constant) noise
trading volatility. Parameter values are: Σ0 = 022 , T = 1, ηL = ηH = 2, σ L = 02, and σ H = 04.



in levels due to the finite horizon effect discussed above. For example, Fig-
ure 2(a) shows that price volatility becomes highest if the economy reaches
maturity having remained all the time in the low state (low/low path). Intu-
itively, this is a path where the insider has to trade on most of his information
just prior to market close in a thin market, after having waited unsuccessfully
for better liquidity states. So the market closes with low volume and high price
volatility.
   The figure clearly illustrates that price volatility can exceed very significantly
the price volatility of the Kyle model, which is always identical to σv , indepen-
dent of the level of noise trader volatility. Instead, in our model, price volatility
is stochastic and ‘excessive,’ in that it is driven by stochastic switches in noise
trading volatility regimes, which are by assumption unrelated to the (constant)
fundamental.
   In this model, price impact is also stochastic and negatively related (in
changes) to noise trading volatility. Indeed, recall that λt =                 Σt
                                                                               Gt
                                                                                    and thus, since
             t
           − 0 κ(uσu ) du
Σ t = Σ0 e          is absolutely continuous, the immediate effect of an up-
ward jump from GL to GH is to lower price impact. Subsequently, however,
the path of price impact depends on the relative speed at which the posterior
                                                                                                          14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
1458                          P. COLLIN-DUFRESNE AND V. FOS

variance Σt and the Gt function decrease, which depends on the path of noise
trading volatility.
   Figure 2(b) plots the path of the posterior variance Σt for the four paths of
noise trading volatility considered previously and against the Kyle benchmark.
Note that, in Kyle’s model, ΣΣt = TT−t , that is, information always decays linearly
                                0
in time, irrespective of the level of noise trading volatility. Instead, with stochas-
tic noise trading volatility, posterior variance typically drops faster when noise
trading volatility is higher. In fact, the figure shows the posterior variance is a
decreasing convex function of time in the high volatility regime, but becomes
decreasing concave when there is a switch to the low noise trading regime. The
intuition is that, in the low noise trading regime, the insider is playing a wait-
ing game, in that he trades much less aggressively than he would in the Kyle
economy with the same level of volatility. He does so hoping for the high noise
trading regime to arrive, when he trades more aggressively, leading to faster
information revelation. Of course, if the regime switch does not arrive, then
ultimately, he will have to become more aggressive so that all his information
eventually makes it into prices (see the path marked as ‘low/low’ on the graph).
The switch from convex to concave is due to the finite horizon effect discussed
above.10
   In Figure 2(c), we plot the path of the price impact (λ(t)) process for the
same four noise trading volatility scenarios. We see that if the economy starts
in the high noise trading regime and stays there until maturity, then measured
price impact is relatively low and decays steadily. Instead, if the economy starts
in the low noise trading regime, then price impact is at first only slightly higher
than in the high noise trading regime, but it increases exponentially as the econ-
omy approaches maturity without switching. Similarly, if the regime switches
at some point from high to low volatility, then price impact immediately jumps
up and then starts to increase along a very convex path as markets become
more illiquid. Interestingly, note that if the economy is in the high noise trad-
ing regime, then measured price impact starts low and decreases steadily at the
beginning, even though there is a lot of ‘adverse selection’ in the sense that a
lot of information is getting into prices as shown in Figure 2(b).
   Last, in Figure 2(d), we plot the path of realized execution costs (λt σt2 ) for
the same four scenarios. The total execution costs paid by noise traders at time
T are captured by the area below each curve plotted. From the graph, it is clear
that execution costs are lowest in the low volatility regime scenario, and much
higher in the high noise trading volatility regime. We give the corresponding
numbers in Table I. This may seem paradoxical, since, as is clear from the table,
the high noise trading volatility regime is also the one where the average price
impact (λ) is lower. However, the comparison is not appropriate since there is

   10
      In a model where T is modeled as an unpredictable stopping time with constant arrival inten-
sity, Σt always follows a decreasing convex path, with a faster decay rate in the high volatility state
(see Collin-Dufresne and Fos (2016a) for further discussion and extension to random intensity).
                                                                                                                              14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
         INSIDER TRADING, STOCHASTIC LIQUIDITY, EQUILIBRIUM PRICES                                                 1459
                                                       TABLE I
                     PATH-DEPENDENCE IN EXECUTION COSTS: AN ILLUSTRATIONa

                                                             Noise Trading Volatility Paths

                                 High/High                 Low/Low                   High/Low                 Low/High
                                    (1)                      (2)                        (3)                     (4)

Panel A: Aggregate execution costs
Total                        0.078                          0.017                     0.054                    0.057
Path Dependent            0.047/0.031                    0.005/0.012               0.047/0.007              0.005/0.052
Panel B: ‘Number’ of noise traders
Total                         0.16                           0.01                     0.085                     0.085
Path Dependent             0.08/0.08                     0.005/0.005               0.08/0.005                0.005/0.08
Panel C: Normalized aggregate execution costs
Total                      0.487                             1.740                    0.636                     0.671
Path Dependent          0.587/0.387                          1/2.4                  0.587/1.4                   1/0.65
Panel D: Average price impact
Total                        0.487                           1.740                    1.023                     0.853
Path Dependent            0.584/0.39                       1.06/2.42               0.584/1.462               1.06/0.646
Panel E: Average stock price volatility
Total                        0.195                          0.174                     0.190                    0.182
Path Dependent            0.234/0.156                    0.106/0.242               0.234/0.146              0.106/0.258
    a This table presents several equilibrium quantities depending on various scenarios of realized paths of noise trad-
ing volatility. Each path of realized noise trading volatility corresponds to a certain ‘number’ of uniformed traders
arriving to the market. This ‘number’ is measured by the quadratic variation of the order flow. In column (1), the
realized noise trading volatility is always in the high regime. In column (2), the realized noise trading volatility is al-
ways in the low regime. In column (3), the realized noise trading volatility changes from high to low regime in the
middle of the trading period. In column (4), the realized noise trading volatility changes from low to high regime in
                                                                                                            
the middle of the trading period. Panel A reports the realized aggregate execution costs for noise traders, 0T λt σt2 dt .
                                                  T 2
Panel B reports the ‘number’ of noise traders, 0 σt dt . Panel C reports the normalized realized execution costs for
                                                                                    
noise traders, 0T λt σt2 dt/ 0T σt2 dt . Panel D reports the average price impact, T1 0T λt dt . Panel E reports the av-
                               1 T
erage stock price volatility, T 0 λt σt dt . The corresponding Kyle/Back stock volatility is constant and equal to 0.2
independent of the level of noise trading volatility.



more noise trading (as measured by the quadratic variation of the order flow)
in a high volatility scenario than in the low volatility scenario and, therefore,
it is natural that the aggregate execution costs paid by noise traders are higher
in the high volatility scenario. However, if we compare the two other scenar-
ios (high/low to low/high), where there are the same ‘number’ of noise traders
along each path (in the sense that the cumulative quadratic variation of noise
trader order flow is the same as is confirmed in the third row of Table I), then
we see that this is not the whole story. Indeed, aggregate execution costs paid
by noise traders are higher even though average price impact is lower in the
low/high scenario relative to the high/low scenario. This shows that a simple
average of price impact does not capture the actual level of execution costs.
Instead, let us define the volume weighted average (i.e., ‘normalized’) execu-
                                                                                           14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
1460                      P. COLLIN-DUFRESNE AND V. FOS

tion costs to noise traders:
                                                 T
                                                         λt σt2 dt
(34)      Normalized Execution Costs =  T       0
                                                                     
                                                            2
                                                          σ dt
                                                            t
                                                     0

The normalized execution costs reduce to the simple time average of λt if ei-
ther λt or σt is constant. This is the case when noise trading volatility is de-
terministic Kyle (1985), Back and Pedersen (1998), in which case normalized
execution costs are constant. Instead, with stochastic noise trading volatility,
they depend on the path followed by noise trading volatility. Panel C shows
that normalized execution costs better capture the actual execution costs paid
by the average noise trader.

                   4. EXTENSIONS AND FURTHER DISCUSSION
                   4.1. The Dynamics of Aggregate Order Flow
  For simplicity, we have assumed that aggregate order flow and noise trad-
ing volatility are conditionally uncorrelated. This assumption can be relaxed.
Consider, for example, the more general model for total order flow Ŷt given by

(35)      d Ŷt = θt dt + σt dZt + η t σ t  Ŷ t dWt 

where we leave the dynamics of σt unchanged, that is, as in equation (4). In
that case, to solve the equilibrium it is useful to define the process Yt by

                          η t σ t  Ŷ t
(36)      dYt = d Ŷt −              t
                                            dσt − m t σ t dt = θt dt + σt dZt 
                            ν t σ

   Note that the dynamics of Yt in equation (36) are identical to those in equa-
tion (2). Further, since observing (Ŷt  σt ) is equivalent to observing (Yt  σt ) for
all market participants, it can be shown that all our results above (and in par-
ticular Theorem 1) are unchanged with this more general model of order flow.
In particular, the price process is given by dPt = λt dYt as in Theorem 1, even
though total order flow is given by Ŷt . This shows that our previous assumption
that total order flow and σt be conditionally uncorrelated is not crucial for our
results. Instead, our equilibrium proof does rely on the assumption that order
flow does not Granger-cause σt in the sense that the history of Ŷt does not
affect the future dynamics of σt (i.e., m and ν cannot depend on Ŷ t for the
solution to the equation for Gt to be independent of total order flow and of
the strategy of the insider).
                                                                                                14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
       INSIDER TRADING, STOCHASTIC LIQUIDITY, EQUILIBRIUM PRICES                       1461

   Economically, this extension is also interesting, as it shows that price change
need not be linear in total order flow, but only in the component of the or-
der flow that is informative about the insider’s actions. So, for example, in
this more general model, a regression of price changes on total order flow
(which is typically used to estimate Kyle’s lambda in empirical papers) deliv-
                                                                                     σt2
ers an estimate of price impact ‘regression coefficient’: λ̂t = dPdtŶd2Ŷt = λt σ 2 +η(t) 2,
                                                                       t          t
which equals λt only if η(t) = 0. Using this estimate will not provide an accu-
rate estimate of actual trading costs paid by individual uninformed investors
if η(t) = 0. This is because uninformed investors’ trades come in two groups
in this extended model: the group who can be used by the informed investor
to hide his trades (σt dZt ) and who therefore generate a per-trade slippage
cost of λt , and the group (η(t) dWt ) who is known to be pure noise and whose
demand does not generate any slippage. Indeed, if the market maker could
distinguish between the two types of uninformed order flow, then they would
each pay different trading costs.


              4.2. Informed Trading and Adverse Selection Measures
   Empirical measures of adverse selection typically rely on an estimate of the
persistent component of the price impact of trades to measure the amount of
private information in trades. In their well-known survey of the micro-structure
literature, Biais, Glosten, and Spatt (2005) described the empirical relation
between adverse selection and the price impact (λ) as follows: “As the infor-
mational motivation of trades becomes relatively more important, λ goes up.”
(page 232). Consistent with this intuition, many empirical studies rely on sim-
ple averages of price impact to sort firms into groups with different levels of
adverse selection.
   One implication of our model is that, while at an individual trade level price
impact does represent the transaction cost paid by a noise trader, over any
finite period average price impact may not be a valid measure of aggregate
(or average) adverse selection costs when both σt and λt change over time.
This is most evident in the Markov chain example. In columns (1) and (2)
of Table I, the noise trading volatility is constant and therefore the average
price impact is equal to the normalized aggregate execution cost paid by noise
traders. In contrast, in columns (3) and (4), the noise trading volatility and
price impact change over time, resulting in a significant difference between the
average price impact and the normalized execution cost paid by the average
noise traders. When σt and thus λt change over time, it is better to use ‘volume’
weighted price impact as a measure of aggregate adverse selection costs, as it
takes into account the variation in the trading by uninformed investors and the
endogenous response of the informed investor’s trading.
                                                                                                     14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
1462                        P. COLLIN-DUFRESNE AND V. FOS

   In a recent empirical study, Collin-Dufresne and Fos (2015) investigated a
large sample of trades by informed investors11 and found that these trade much
more aggressively, when measured adverse selection is low. Their study uncov-
ers a strong negative relation between traditional measures of adverse selec-
tion (such as estimates of Kyle’s lambda obtained from high-frequency data)
and trading by informed investors. They also showed that these informed in-
vestors are more likely to trade when abnormal volume on the stock itself as
well as other measures of market-wide liquidity, such as the abnormal vol-
ume on the S&P 500 stock index, are high, which is consistent with the eco-
nomic mechanism of this paper where informed investors wait for better liq-
                               σ2
uidity (as measured by κt = Gtt ) to trade more. This also calls into question
the widespread use of (high- or low-frequency) price-impact measures as mea-
sures of adverse selection, for example, in cross-sectional empirical asset pric-
ing tests.

          4.3. Dynamics of Price Volatility, Bid-Ask Spreads, and Returns
   The model makes interesting predictions about the joint dynamics of price
volatility, price impact, and stock returns. For example, the model predicts that
typically price volatility tends to be high when volume is high and price impact
is low. This goes in an opposite direction to the relation predicted, for example,
by inventory models of trading costs, where higher volatility would typically be
positively related to trading costs (Stoll (1978)). Further, our model predicts
that the joint dynamics are path-dependent and will depend significantly on
the realized path of uninformed trading. So, for example, after a long period
of low noise trading, price volatility and price impact can actually both rise
together. This occurs in the model if the insider approaches maturity without
having been able to trade much (see Figures 2(c) and 2(a)). Eventually, he is
not willing to wait anymore and trades aggressively in a low noise trading en-
vironment, leading to high price impact and high volatility. These predictions
could be tested and used to improve estimates of the adverse selection com-
ponent of trading costs. They could help better understand the complex joint
dynamics of volatility, return, and volume often observed around daily market
closes.

                    4.4. Subordinated Processes and Time Changes
   There is a long tradition in financial econometrics to model the time series
of price changes as subordinated to the normal distribution. Clark (1973) ini-
tiated this literature and proposed that the directing process τt be a form of

   11
      Exploiting an SEC disclosure requirement that requires activist shareholders to file a 13D
schedule in which they report past trades in target stocks when they hit the 5% ownership thresh-
old, CF built a sample of trades by activist investors. They documented that these trades are
informed, based on their abnormal realized profits, and analyzed the price impact of these trades.
                                                                                       14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
       INSIDER TRADING, STOCHASTIC LIQUIDITY, EQUILIBRIUM PRICES              1463

‘business time’ measure related to the volume of trading. This idea led to sev-
eral reduced-form models trying to capture the volatility-volume relationship
(see Tauchen and Pitts (1983), Epps and Epps (1976), Richardson and Smith
(1993), Andersen (1996), Gallant, Rossi, and Tauchen (1992)), in particular to
capture the heteroscedasticity in returns. Our model provides microeconomic
foundations for such a subordinate process for stock return. Indeed, the direct-
ing process is endogenous in our model and related to trading volume, as we
point out in the following corollary:

  COROLLARY 1: Define the positive increasing stochastic (directing) process:
                         t 2
(37)      τt = T 1 − e− 0 σu /Gu du 

Then, setting σv2 = ΣT0 and since τT = T , we have

(38)      Σt = σv2 (τT − τt )

and
                  (v − Pt )
(39)      dPt =             dτt + σv dBτt
                   τT − τt
for some Brownian motion B independent of W defined by σv dBτt = λt σt dZt . It
follows that the time-changed price process P̂(·) defined by P̂(τt ) = Pt is a Brow-
nian Bridge on the time-changed insider’s Fτt -filtration and a Brownian motion
on the market maker’s FτYt -filtration.

The corollary shows that the equilibrium price is a time-changed Brownian
Bridge, which is reminiscent of the Kyle–Back model where the price process
is a standard (constant volatility) Brownian Bridge. However, our equilibrium
cannot simply be obtained as a time-change of that model, since price impact
is constant in the Kyle–Back model and a stochastic process in ours. In the
market maker’s filtration, price is a time-changed Brownian motion, which
belongs to the class of subordinate processes proposed in Clark (1973). In-
terestingly, our model gives an endogenous expression for the directing pro-
cess (τt ) that depends on the (uninformed) volume dynamics and does not
require the specification of a latent ‘information process’ to generate stochas-
tic volatility (see the discussion in Andersen (1996), e.g.). The model is general
in that we can solve for the directing process for any dynamics of volume (the
literature has considered various distributions such as Normal, Poisson, and
Log-normal; e.g., Andersen (1996) and Richardson and Smith (1993)). Thus,
our theoretical model has the potential to “jointly account for major stylized
facts—serially correlated volatility, contemporaneous volume-volatility corre-
lation and excess kurtosis of price changes” as emphasized by Gallant, Rossi,
and Tauchen (1992).
                                                                                     14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
1464                    P. COLLIN-DUFRESNE AND V. FOS

                                5. CONCLUSION
  In this paper, we have extended Kyle’s (1985) model of dynamic insider trad-
ing to the case where noise trading volatility can change stochastically over
time. Under certain conditions which we identify, the equilibrium price pro-
cess exhibits stochastic ‘excess volatility’ in the sense that non-payoff-relevant
shocks that change noise trading in equilibrium also drive the price volatility.
This is because rational market makers anticipate that more informed trading
occurs, and thus more information is revealed, when noise trading volatility is
high. As a result, price impact is stochastic and negatively correlated with noise
trading volatility. Further, in equilibrium, price impact is a submartingale, in-
dicating that, on average, execution costs are expected to increase over time,
reflecting the ‘liquidity timing option’ held by the insider.
  The model makes interesting predictions about the joint dynamics of price
volatility, price impact, and volume, which could be taken into account to em-
pirically measure the adverse selection component of trading costs.
  The model makes many simplifying assumptions that could be relaxed to
further our understanding of how information flows into prices and how price
volatility, price impact, and trading volume comove. First, we assume that
the amount of private information is fixed and only noise trading volatility is
time varying. Second, we assume that the horizon is fixed. Third, we assume
throughout that the noise trading volatility process is observable to all. Fourth,
we assume that the presence of the insider is common knowledge. And last,
we assume that the insider and market makers are risk-neutral. We leave these
extensions for future research.

                                  APPENDIX
                    A.1. Proof of Lemma 1: Existence
                   √
  We note that yt = Gt solves the backward stochastic differential equation

         dyt = −f (t yt ) dt − Λt dMt 
                σ2
with f (t y) = 2yt and with terminal condition yT = 0. Now f (t yt ) ≤ (yt )
                                                  2
∀(t ω) where we define the function (y) = 2|y|  σ
                                                    . We note that (y) is con-
                                            ∞ dx    0 dx
tinuous and strictly positive and that 0 (x) = −∞ (x)    = ∞. Thus (x) is
super-linear as shown in Lemma 1 of Lepeltier and San Martin (1997). Their
Theorem 1 then applies, which gives us the existence of a maximal bounded
solution for yt (and therefore for Gt ). In addition their Theorem 1 implies
                                                               T
that there exist two solutions L(t) U(t) that solve Lt = − t (Ls ) ds and
      T
Ut = t (Us ) ds such that we have Lt ≤ Gt ≤ Ut . It is easy to calculate that
Ut2 = −L2t = σ 2 (T − t). This gives us the upper bound.
                                                                                       14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
       INSIDER TRADING, STOCHASTIC LIQUIDITY, EQUILIBRIUM PRICES              1465

  For the lower bound, we use a comparison theorem. Consider the solution
to the following backward equation:

                    σ2
          dxt = −       dt − Λ̃t dWt 
                    2xt
with terminal condition xT = 0. It can be computed straightforwardly as xt =
  √                                                2
σ T − t (note Λ̃t = 0). Since ∀(t ω) f (t y) ≥ σ2y , we can use the comparison
result Corollary 2 of Lepeltier and San Martin (1997) to obtain

(40)      yt ≥ xt   ∀(t ω)

which gives the lower bound on the maximal solution for Gt .

                       A.2. Proof of Lemma 1: Uniqueness
               √
  Define gt = Gt . To prove uniqueness of the solution, assume that there are
two (uniformly bounded) solutions gt1 and gt2 to the recursive equation. Then
consider the difference t = gt1 − gt2 . It satisfies
                  T
                           σs2      
                                   
         t = E       −s 1 2 dsFtσ 
                   t      2gs gs
                               2                     t
Thus, if we define as = √σs 1 2 ≥ 0, we have that e− 0 as ds t is a bounded contin-
                          2    gs gs
uous martingale (note that t is clearly bounded since it is the difference of two
uniformly bounded positive processes) equal to zero at T (since gT1 = gT2 = 0).
It thus follows that t = 0 ∀t.

                          A.3. Proof of Main Theorem 1
  The proof is in several steps.

A.3.1. Step 1: Market Maker’s Updating
  First, we establish that if the market maker conjectures that the insider’s
trading strategy is linear in his per-period profit, that is, that

(41)      θt = βt (v − Pt )

where βt is an FtY -adapted process that measures the speed at which the in-
sider decides to close the gap between the fundamental value v (known only
to him) and the market price Pt , and where we define Σt as the conditional
variance of the terminal payoff:
                              
(42)     Σt = E (v − Pt )2 |FtY 
                                                                                      14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
1466                        P. COLLIN-DUFRESNE AND V. FOS

then the equilibrium price process which results from the market maker’s
break-even pricing rule given in equation (3) is such that price changes are
conditionally linear in order flow.

  LEMMA 2: If the insider adopts a trading strategy of the form given in (41), then
the stock price given by equation (3) starts at P0 and has dynamics

(43)      dPt = λt dYt 

where the price impact is a function of the conjectured trading rule:

                 βt Σt
(44)      λt =         
                  σt2

Further, the dynamics of the posterior variance are given by

(45)      dΣt = −λ2t σt2 dt

  PROOF: This follows directly from an application of Theorems 12.6, 12.7
in LS (2001). We provide a simple ‘heuristic’ motivation of the result using
standard Gaussian projection theorem below:
                                              
(46)     Pt+dt = E v|Y t  Yt+dt  σ t  σt+dt
                                Cov v Yt+dt − Yt |Y t  σ t
(47)             = E v|Y t  σ t +
                                   V Yt+dt − Yt |Y t  σ t
                                                         
                   × Yt+dt − Yt − E Yt+dt − Yt |Y t  σ t
                               βt Σt dt
(48)             = Pt +                       (Yt+dt − Yt )
                           β Σt dt 2 + σt2 dt
                             2
                             t

                           βt Σ t
(49)             ≈ Pt +           dYt 
                            σt2

The second equality uses the fact that the dynamics of σt is independent of the
asset value distribution and of the innovation in order flow. The third equal-
ity uses the fact that the expected change in order flow is zero for the conjec-
tured policy. The last line follows from going to the continuous-time limit (with
dt 2 ≈ 0). Similarly, by the projection theorem, we have
                                          
(50)       Var v|Y t  Yt+dt  σ t  σt+dt
                                             2
                                      βt Σt                            
             = Var v|Y  σ −
                          t    t
                                                 Var Yt+dt − Yt |Y t  σ t 
                                         σt
                                                                                               14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
       INSIDER TRADING, STOCHASTIC LIQUIDITY, EQUILIBRIUM PRICES                       1467

which gives
(51)     Σt+dt = Σt − λ2t σt2 dt                                                     Q.E.D.

A.3.2. Insider’s Optimal Strategy
  Second, we establish that if price changes are linear in order flow with a
specific choice of price impact process, namely:
(52)     dPt = λt dYt 

                 Σt
(53)     λt =       
                 Gt

with Gt  Σt as defined in (11) and (45), then the optimal trading strategy of the
insider is indeed of the form given in equation (41).
  To establish this, we first need a preliminary result which establishes that the
conjectured equilibrium price process converges at maturity to the liquidation
value v.

  LEMMA 3: Suppose price dynamics are given by equations (52), (45), (53), and
(11); then the price process Pt converges almost surely to v at time T .

  PROOF: The conjectured equilibrium price process is

                 (v − Pt ) 2                Σt
(54)     dPt =            σt dt +              σt dZt 
                    Gt                      Gt
                   Σt 2
(55)     dΣt = −     σ dt
                   Gt t
It is straightforward to solve the ODE for Σt and obtain equation (17). Con-
sider the process X(t) = Pt − v:

                     
                                                 t      t
                    − 0t (σu2 /Gu ) du                        2           Σs
(56)     X(t) = e                        X0 +         e− s (σu /Gu ) du      σs dZs
                                                 0                        Gs
(57)            := I1 (t) + I2 (t)
where the second line defines the integrals I1  I2 . Equation (12) implies that
                        t 2                           
         σ2         T           σu       σ2            T
            log          ≥         du ≥ 2 log               
         σ2       T −t      0 Gu         σ           T −t
  It follows immediately from this inequality that
(58)     lim I1 (t) = 0     a.s.
         t→T
                                                                                                   14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
1468                             P. COLLIN-DUFRESNE AND V. FOS
                                         t    2
Further, note that I2 (t) = e− 0 (σu /Gu ) du Mt , where we define the Brownian mar-
tingale:
                  t       s    2            Σs
(59)      Mt =         e 0 (σu /Gu ) du          σs dZs 
                  0                           Gs

  Note that the quadratic variation of Mt is equal to
                  t 
                       s   2         Σs
(60)     M t=       e 0 (2σu /Gu ) du σs2 ds
                  0                  G s
                                t   2
(61)             = Σ0 e 0 (σu /Gu ) du − 1 

where we substituted Σs from equation (17) to obtain the second line.
  Now, from Karatzas and Shreve (1991, Theorem 4.6, p. 174), we know there
exists a standard Brownian motion Bt such that the continuous martingale
can be seen as a time-changed Brownian motion, specifically Mt = B M t . Us-
ing the strong law of large numbers for Brownian motion, which states that
limτ→∞ Bτ /τ = 0 a.s. (see Karatzas and Shreve (1991, p. 104)), we obtain
                 t    2                                 BMt           Bτ /τ
(62)      lim e− 0 (σu /Gu ) du Mt = lim                       = lim          =0   a.s.
          t→T                                 t→T          M t   τ→∞ 1
                                                        1+              + 1/τ
                                                           Σ0        Σ0
This establishes that limt→T I2 (t) = 0 a.s. and completes the proof.                     Q.E.D.

  We now establish another useful result about the limiting distribution of the
standardized price process.

  LEMMA 4: The process ht = √
                            Pt −v
                                  follows a time-changed Ornstein–Uhlenbeck
                                                   Σt
process with the property that hT has a normal distribution with E[hT ] = 0 and
E[h2T ] = 1. It follows that Pt converges to v in L2 .

  PROOF: Simple calculations show that

                      1 σt2         σt
(63)      dht = −           ht dt +    dZt 
                      2 Gt          Gt
This is a time-changed Ornstein–Uhlenbeck process with stochastic time-
                        t σs2
change process τt = 0 G      s
                               ds, which is independent of the filtration generated
by Zt . Straightforward calculations show that E[hT ] = 0 and E[h2T ] = 1 and
that the limiting distribution of hT is a standard normal.                   Q.E.D.

  Next, we establish that market depth is a martingale.
                                                                                     14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
       INSIDER TRADING, STOCHASTIC LIQUIDITY, EQUILIBRIUM PRICES             1469

  LEMMA 5: Market depth (which is the inverse of the price impact, i.e., Kyle’s
lambda) is a martingale that is orthogonal to the aggregate order flow. It follows
that price impact (Kyle’s lambda) is a submartingale.

  PROOF: Note that from its definition, the Gt process satisfies

                         σt2
(64)     d Gt +                    dt = d Mt 
                     2 Gt
                   T σ2
where Mt = E[ 0 2√tGt dt|σ t ] is a bounded martingale (adapted to the filtra-
tion generated by the noise trader volatility process) by the law of iterated
expectation and since from equation (12) it is straightforward to show that
          2√
Mt ≤ σσ T ∀t.
   It follows, by definition of the process σt , that d Mt dZt = 0.
   From its definition in (53) and the definition for Σt and Gt above, we obtain

              1     1            Gt
(65)     d        =    d Gt −           dΣt
             λ(t)   Σt        2(Σt )3/2
                         1
(66)             =             d Mt 
                         Σt

It also follows that d λ1t dYt = 0.
   To prove that λ is a submartingale, we apply Jensen’s inequality. We have
 1
λt
   = Et [ λ1s ] ≥ Et [λ
                     1
                       s]
                          . It follows that λt ≤ Et [λs ].            Q.E.D.

  We can also prove a useful inequality for the Gt function:

  LEMMA 6: If a bounded solution Gt exists, then it satisfies
                    T                  T         
                                                    1
         Gt = E              σ ds −
                               2
                               s              Σs d
                     t                   t          λ s
                  T             
              ≤E              2
                             σs ds 
                     t

                                              √     2
  PROOF: Apply Itô’s formula to                   Gt :
             2                √
         d Gt = 2 Gt d Gt + d[ G]t
                                             √
                   = −σt2 dt + 2 Gt d Mt + d[ G]t 
                                                                                      14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
1470                            P. COLLIN-DUFRESNE AND V. FOS

Thus, integrating and taking
                           √ expectation, we get the desired result where we
                 √              Σ
use the fact that Gt = λt t and that Σt is an absolutely continuous process,
           √
to write d[ G]t = Σt d[ λ1 ]t .                                       Q.E.D.
  We now can prove the main result for this step, namely a verification proof
of optimality of the insider’s trading strategy (16). Recall that the insider is
optimizing the following value process:
                        T                     
                                           Y
(67)     Jt = max E         (v − Ps )θs dsFt  v 
                  {θs }s≥t ∈A     t

where the set of admissible strategies A is defined as the set of processes θt
            T
such that E[ 0 |θs |2 ds] < ∞.
  LEMMA 7: Suppose price dynamics are given by equations (52), (45), (53), and
(11), and that volatility is uniformly bounded (σ ≤ σt ≤ σ); then the optimal value
process is given by
                  (v − Pt )2 + Σt
(68)      Jt =                    
                       2λt
and the optimal strategy is given by
                   1 σt2
(69)      θt∗ =          (v − Pt )
                   λt Gt
  PROOF: Apply Itô’s rule to the conjectured value function to get
                                                              
             (v − Pt )2 + Σt 1      1                    1
(70)   dJt =                 d +        −(v − Pt ) dPt + dPt2
                    2          λt λt                     2
                                         1   1
                     − (v − Pt ) dPt d     +    dΣt 
                                         λt 2λt
The insider takes the price impact process as given and assumes the price pro-
cess follows:
          dPt = λt (θt dt + σt dZt )
with the λ process as in equation (53) above. Using Lemma 5 and the Σt dy-
namics, and integrating the above, we obtain
                    T
(71)     JT − J0 +     (v − Pt )θt dt
                            0
                   T                       T
                                                 (v − Pt )2 + Σt
            =           (Pt − v)σt dZt +                           d Mt 
                    0                       0        2 Σt
                                                                                                   14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
      INSIDER TRADING, STOCHASTIC LIQUIDITY, EQUILIBRIUM PRICES                             1471

Now, since JT ≥ 0, it follows by taking expectation (and using the fact that the
stochastic integrals are martingales, as established in Lemma 8 below), that
             T               
(72)      E      (v − Pt )θt dt ≤ J0
               0

for any admissible policy {θt }. Further, if there exists a trading strategy θt con-
sistent with the updating equations (44), such that E[JT ] = 0 then, the inequal-
ity holds with equality.
   The candidate policy in equation (16) satisfies this.
   Indeed, note that

                   (v − PT )2 + ΣT   (v − PT )2                     Σ T GT   (v − PT )2
           JT =                    =            +                          =            
                        2λT             2λT                          2          2λT
In turn,
                           
                      2
                                                    2 
              (v − PT )                      v − PT
           E               
                          ≤ E (v − PT ) GT E
                                       2                    = 0
                 λT                                ΣT

where the right-hand-side equality follows from Lemma 3 and Lemma 4.
  We have therefore proved the optimality of the value function and of the
proposed policy.                                                   Q.E.D.

  LEMMA 8: Since σt is uniformly bounded above and below, the stochastic inte-
              t                             t        2
grals J1 (t) = 0 (v − Ps )σs dZs and J2 (t) = 0 (v−P√
                                                    s ) +Σs
                                                            d Ms are martingales for
                                                                2     Σs
any admissible strategy.

   PROOF: To prove that J1 (t) is a martingale, it is sufficient to show that
   T
E[ 0 (v − Pt )2 σt2 dt] < ∞. In turn, because σt is uniformly bounded, it is
sufficient
t         to show that Pt has finite variance for all t. Note that Pt = P0 +
                 t
   λ θ
 0 s s 
        ds +       σs λs dZs . Thus, for Pt to have finite variance, it is sufficient
           t
                0                       t                            t
that E[( 0 λs θs ds)2 ] < ∞ and E[ 0 σs2 λ2s ds] < ∞. Clearly, E[ 0 σs2 λ2s ds] =
Σ0 − Σt < ∞. Further, using the Cauchy–Schwarz inequality, we have
             t                 2       t           t       
           E           λs θs ds          ≤E        2
                                                  λ ds
                                                   s
                                                                2
                                                               θ ds 
                                                                s
                   0                          0           0
                                                                       t
The right-hand side is finite for any admissible trading strategy since 0 λ2s ds ≤
   t Σs 2
1
σ 0 Gs s
        σ ds = Σ0 σ−Σt < Σσ0 .
  Next, to show that J2 (t) is a martingale, since Mt is a uniformly bounded
martingale (from Lemma 5) and Σt is a decreasing process, it is sufficient to
                                                                                                                14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
1472                            P. COLLIN-DUFRESNE AND V. FOS
             T (v−Pt )2
show that    0
                 √ d Mt is a martingale. For this stochastic integral to have
                          Σt
                                                           4                                            2
                                                                                                            √
finite variance, it is sufficient that E[ (v−P  Σt
                                                   t)
                                                      ] < ∞ ∀t given that Mt < σ σ 2 T ∀t as
shown in Lemma 5, and thus its quadratic variation is bounded.
                          4
   Note that E[ (v−PΣt
                       t)
                            ] < Σ0 E[h4t ], with h defined in Lemma 4. It follows from
the properties of ht obtained in Lemma 4 that E[h4t ] < ∞ ∀t.                        Q.E.D.


                A.4. Derivation of the Expression (20) for Slippage Costs
  Intuitively, the total losses incurred between 0 and T by noise traders can be
computed path-wise as
            T                              T
(73)               (Pt+dt − v)σt dZt =              (Pt + dPt − v)σt dZt
            0                               0
                                            T                        T
                                       =            λt σt2 dt +            (Pt − v)σt dZt 
                                            0                         0


The first component is the pure execution or slippage cost due to the fact that,
in Kyle’s model, agents submit market orders at time t that get executed at date
t + dt at a price set by competitive market makers. The second component is
a fundamental loss due to the fact that, based on the price they observe at t,
noise traders purchase a security with fundamental value v that is unknown to
them. Note that since prices are set efficiently by market makers, on average
this second component is zero. Therefore, we obtain the result that the uncon-
ditional expected total losses incurred by noise traders are entirely driven by
expected execution costs. Further, these are also equal to the total uncondi-
tional expected profits of the insider. However, note that, path-wise, neither
quantity need be equal. To show that unconditional expected execution costs
paid by noise traders are equal to the unconditional expected profits of the
insider, note that the insider’s unconditional expected profits are
                    T                             T                                   
                                                               σt2
(74)       E   v
                          θt (v − Pt ) dt = E   v
                                                                          (v − Pt ) dt
                                                                                   2

                     0                                0        Σ t Gt
                                                     T                                   T           
                                                               σt2
                                          =E    v
                                                                          Σt dt = E    v            2
                                                                                                   σ λt dt 
                                                                                                    t
                                                      0        Σ t Gt                          0


where the first equality follows from the definition of θ∗ and the second from
the law of iterated expectations. This is the same expression obtained for the
unconditional expected execution costs paid by noise traders. By definition,
this is also equal to Ev [J(0)] = Σ0 G0 , where the expectation superscript em-
phasizes that it is taken over the unconditional distribution of v.
                                                                                                   14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
       INSIDER TRADING, STOCHASTIC LIQUIDITY, EQUILIBRIUM PRICES                           1473

A.5. Proof of Theorem 2: Deterministic Growth Rate of Noise Trading Volatility
  Suppose the drift mt is deterministic. Guess that the solution is of the form
Gt = σt2 Bt , where Bt is the solution given in the lemma. Plugging into equation
(11), we see that our guess is correct if Bt solves
                     T    u
                          e t ms ds
             Bt =                     du
                     t    2 Bu

where we have used the fact that, for any martingale Wt , we have (for u ≥ t)
                           u
(75)      Et [σu ] = σt e t ms ds 

   The solution for Bt given in the lemma indeed satisfies this integral equa-
tion. Since uniqueness was established before, we have found the solution of
equation (22).
   All results in the theorem follow directly from Theorem 1 and the expression
for Gt .
   The only new result is the calculation of the expected trading rate of the
insider:
                                                    
                                    (v − Pt ) σt2
(76)      E[θt |v F0 ] = E
                                        Σt      Gt
                                                               t
                            (v − P0 ) −  t (1/(2Bs )) ds σ0 e 0 ms ds
(77)                      =          e 0                               
                                Σ0                             Bt

where we used the dynamics of ht from Lemma 5 and the expression for Gt
from equation (22). The result in the theorem then follows from standard ma-
                                                t                          t
nipulations (in particular, note that e 0 −(1/(2Bs )) ds =            Bt
                                                                      B0
                                                                           e 0 ms ds ).   Q.E.D.


                                    A.6. Proof of Theorem 3
   Consider a pair of functions GL (·) GH (·) that solve the ODE system
(29)–(30) subject to the boundary condition GL (0) = GH (0) = 0; then it
is straightforward to show that if we define G(t σt ) = 1{σt =σ L } GL (T − t) +
                                    √            t    σu2
1{σt =σ H } GH (T − t), then J(t) = G(t σt ) + 0 2√G(uσ  u)
                                                              du is a pure jump mar-
tingale (i.e., Et [dJ(t)] = 0). It follows that J(t) = Et [J(T )] and, using
                                                                         √ the def-
inition of J(t) and the boundary conditions from the ODEs, that G(t σt ) =
    T       σu2
Et [ t 2√G(uσ   u)
                    du].                                                      Q.E.D.
                                                                                                      14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
1474                         P. COLLIN-DUFRESNE AND V. FOS

                             A.7. Proof for the Time Change
  This result follows from the definition of the time-change which implies

                      1
           dτt = −        dΣt
                      σv2
                    Σt σt2
                =
                    σv2 Gt
                    (τT − τt )σt2
                =                 
                        Gt
Substituting in the definition of the equilibrium price process in Theorem 1
establishes the result. Note that the properties of the equilibrium imply that
τT = T a.s. and thus the time-change is indeed adapted. Of course, τ0 = 0.
Importantly, we cannot obtain our equilibrium simply as a time-change of the
standard Kyle–Back models when ν = 0 since, in that case, price impact is a
stochastic process in our equilibrium (i.e., is not constant), whereas price im-
pact is constant in the Kyle–Back model.

                                         REFERENCES
ADMATI, A., AND P. PFLEIDERER (1988): “A Theory of Intraday Patterns: Volume and Price Vari-
  ability,” Review of Financial Studies, 1 (1), 3–40. [1443,1450]
ANDERSEN, T. G. (1996): “Return Volatility and Trading Volume: An Information Flow Interpre-
  tation of Stochastic Volatility,” The Journal of Finance, 51 (1), 169–204. [1444,1463]
BACK, K. (1992): “Insider Trading in Continuous Time,” Review of Financial Studies, 5, 387–409.
  [1442,1444,1445,1447,1449,1450,1452]
BACK, K., AND S. BARUCH (2004): “Information in Securities Markets: Kyle Meets Glosten and
  Milgrom,” Econometrica, 72 (2), 433–465. [1442,1450]
BACK, K., AND H. PEDERSEN (1998): “Long-Lived Information and Intraday Patterns,” Journal
  of Financial Markets, 1, 385–402. [1442,1443,1450,1460]
BACK, K., C. H. CAO, AND G. A. WILLARD (2000): “Imperfect Competition Among Informed
  Traders,” The Journal of Finance, 55 (5), 2117–2155. [1450]
BARUCH, S. (2002): “Insider Trading and Risk Aversion,” Journal of Financial Markets, 5 (4),
  451–464. [1442,1450]
BIAIS, B., L. GLOSTEN, AND C. SPATT (2005): “Market Microstructure: A Survey of Microfounda-
  tions, Empirical Results, and Policy Implications,” Journal of Financial Markets, 8 (2), 217–264.
  [1461]
CALDENTEY, R., AND E. STACCHETTI (2010): “Insider Trading With a Random Deadline,”
  Econometrica, 78 (1), 245–283. [1450]
CLARK, P. K. (1973): “A Subordinated Stochastic Process Model With Finite Variance for Specu-
  lative Prices,” Econometrica, 41 (1), 135–155. [1442,1444,1462,1463]
COLLIN-DUFRESNE, P., AND V. FOS (2015): “Do Prices Reveal the Presence of Informed Trad-
  ing?” The Journal of Finance, 70 (4), 1555–1582. [1442,1462]
          (2016a): “Insider Trading With a Random Horizon,” Working Paper, SFI, EPFL. [1458]
            (2016b): “Supplement to ‘Insider Trading, Stochastic Liquidity, and Equilibrium
  Prices’,” Econometrica Supplemental Material, 84, http://dx.doi.org/10.3982/ECTA10789. [1454]
                                                                                                     14680262, 2016, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3982/ECTA10789 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
       INSIDER TRADING, STOCHASTIC LIQUIDITY, EQUILIBRIUM PRICES                            1475

EPPS, T. W., AND M. L. EPPS (1976): “The Stochastic Dependence of Security Price Changes and
  Transaction Volumes: Implications for the Mixture-of-Distributions Hypothesis,” Economet-
  rica, 44 (2), 305–321. [1463]
FOSTER, F. D., AND S. VISWANATHAN (1990): “A Theory of the Interday Variations in Volume,
  Variance, and Trading Costs in Securities Markets,” Review of Financial Studies, 3 (4), 593–624.
  [1443]
          (1993): “Variations in Trading Volume, Return Volatility, and Trading Costs: Evidence
  on Recent Price Formation Models,” The Journal of Finance, 48 (1), 187–211. [1443]
          (1995): “Can Speculative Trading Explain the Volume–Volatility Relation?” Journal of
  Business & Economic Statistics, 13 (4), 379–396. [1443]
          (1996): “Strategic Trading When Agents Forecast the Forecasts of Others,” The Journal
  of Finance, 51 (4), 1437–1478. [1450]
GALLANT, A. R., P. E. ROSSI, AND G. TAUCHEN (1992): “Stock Prices and Volume,” Review of
  Financial Studies, 5 (2), 199–242. [1442,1463]
KARATZAS, I., AND S. E. SHREVE (1991): Brownian Motion and Stochastic Calculus. Berlin:
  Springer-Verlag. [1468]
KYLE, A. (1985): “Continuous Auctions and Insider Trading,” Econometrica, 53 (6), 1315–1335.
  [1441,1443,1444,1450,1460,1464]
LAMOUREUX, C. G., AND W. D. LASTRAPES (1990): “Heteroskedasticity in Stock Return Data:
  Volume versus GARCH Effects,” The Journal of Finance, 45 (1), 221–229. [1442]
LEPELTIER, J.-P., AND J. SAN MARTIN (1997): “Existence for BSDE With Superlinear–Quadratic
  Coefficient,” Stochastics and Stochastic Reports, 63 (3–4), 227–240. [1464,1465]
LIPTSER, R., AND A. SHIRYAEV (2001): Statistics of Random Processes II: Applications (Second
  Ed.). Berlin: Springer-Verlag. [1445]
MADHAVAN, A., M. RICHARDSON, AND M. ROOMANS (1997): “Why Do Security Prices Change?
  A Transaction-Level Analysis of NYSE Stocks,” Review of Financial Studies, 10 (4), 1035–1064.
  [1443]
RICHARDSON, M., AND T. SMITH (1993): “A Test for Multivariate Normality in Stock Returns,”
  The Journal of Business, 66 (2), 295–321. [1444,1463]
STOLL, H. R. (1978): “The Supply of Dealer Services in Securities Markets,” The Journal of Fi-
  nance, 33 (4), 1133–1151. [1462]
TAUCHEN, G. E., AND M. PITTS (1983): “The Price Variability–Volume Relationship on Specula-
  tive Markets,” Econometrica, 51 (2), 485–505. [1444,1463]
WATANABE, M. (2008): “Price Volatility and Investor Behavior in an Overlapping Generations
  Model With Information Asymmetry,” The Journal of Finance, 63 (1), 229–272. [1443]


  SFI, CDM, EPFL, SFI-PCD EXTRA 209 (Bâtiment Extranef UNIL), CH-1015
Lausanne, Switzerland; pierre.collin-dufresne@epfl.ch
                                      and
  Dept. of Finance, Carroll School of Management, Boston College, Fulton Hall
338, 140 Commonwealth Avenue, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467, U.S.A.; fos@bc.edu.
                      Co-editor Lars Peter Hansen handled this manuscript.
              Manuscript received May, 2012; final revision received February, 2016.
