  The Stick or the Carrot? The Role of Regulation and
                   Liquidity in Activist Short-Termism
                                   Adrian Aycan Corum

                                           April 15, 2025


                                                Abstract

          I study a model of activist short-termism, where the activist can sell his stake in
      the target before the impact of his intervention is realized. Changes in liquidity or
      policies that make activists’ exit harder can increase …rm value if there is only moral
      hazard (where activist’s intervention creates more value if he exerts e¤ort) or only adverse
      selection (where some interventions destroy value while others create value). However,
      these changes destroy total …rm value when both moral hazard and adverse selection are
      present. Moreover, even policies that reward long-termism (e.g., loyalty shares or lower
      long-term capital gains taxes) can destroy total …rm value, but with a lower likelihood.
      The reason behind these implications is that when the moral hazard problem is binding,
      a higher number of value-destroying activists results in a higher probability of e¤ort by
      the value-creating activists, and as a result of this higher e¤ort, average …rm value strictly
      increases. The model implies the optimality of value destruction in settings with other
      types of blockholders who are subject to short-termism as well, such as venture capitalists
      and entrepreneurs.

      Keywords: Blockholder, Liquidity, Incentives, Myopia, Regulation, Shareholder Ac-
      tivism, Short-Termism.
      JEL Classification: C70, D82, G23, G24, G32, G34, L26

    Johnson Graduate School of Management, Cornell University, corum@cornell.edu. I am grateful to Jitendra
Aswani (discussant), Warren Bailey, Attila Balogh, Noemie Bucourt (discussant), Murillo Campello, Cather-
ine Casamatta, Vyacheslav Fos, Benjamin Hébert, Naveen Khanna, Tanja Kirmse (discussant), Doron Levit,
Nadya Malenko, Lin Nan (discussant), Giorgia Piacentino, Mani Sethuraman, Ernst-Ludwig von Thadden (dis-
cussant), Yan Xiong (discussant), and Begum Ipek Yavuz, and participants of Northern Finance Association,
Columbia Business School Burton Conference, European Winter Finance Summit, Australasian Finance and
Banking Conference, Midwest Finance Association Conference, Financial Markets and Corporate Governance
Conference, and seminar participants at Bilkent University and Cornell University for helpful comments and
suggestions. An earlier version of this paper was circulated under the title “Governance through Regulation
vs. Market Forces: Fighting Short-Termism under Moral Hazard and Adverse Selection.”


                                                    1
1       Introduction
Activist shareholders are often criticized for sacri…cing long-term value for short-term gains.
Laurence Fink, the CEO of the world’s largest asset manager BlackRock, has argued that “the
proliferation of activist shareholders seeking immediate returns”pressures “companies to meet
short-term …nancial goals at the expense of building long-term value”, along with State Street
which has expressed similar concerns.1 In the empirical literature, while several papers report
that the stock price response to activist campaigns is positive on average, others report evidence
consistent with activist shareholders destroying long-term value in some of their interventions
due to short-termist motives.2
    An important reason for this short-termism criticism is that the market often cannot im-
mediately assess the long-term consequences of activist interventions, and therefore activists
can sell their stake in the target before the e¤ect of their actions on …rm value is revealed. In
particular, there are two important channels through which this problem can arise.
    The …rst one is adverse selection: When there are activists whose interventions improve
…rm value, other activists who do not have a value-increasing strategy might be tempted to
make a pro…t by intervening in …rms, creating the perception that they are improving …rm
value with their intervention (by pooling with activists who do increase …rm value), and then
selling their stake, even if such interventions destroy …rm value in reality. For example, in 2006,
hedge fund activist William Ackman pressured Wendy’s to spin-o¤ Tim Hortons and sold his
stake in Wendy’s shortly after the spin-o¤, making a pro…t due to the short-term increase in
Wendy’s share price from about $15 to $20. However, over the following years, the share price
declined all the way down to $4-5 and remained in this range for years. Many have argued
that the loss of synergies with Tim Hortons played an important role in Wendy’s poor share
performance and criticized Ackman for destroying …rm value with the spin-o¤.3
    Motivated by such activist interventions, many proposals have been made to curb activists
    1
     See Business Insider, “BlackRock CEO Larry Fink tells the world’s biggest business leaders to stop worrying
about short-term results,”04/14/2015, and State Street Global Advisors, “Protecting Long-Term Shareholder
Interests In Activist Engagements,”10/10/2016. For a similar remark made by BlackRock about activists in a
separate statement, see HLS Forum on Corporate Governance and Financial Regulation, “Getting Along with
BlackRock,” 11/06/2017.
   2
     For extensive surveys, see, e.g., Brav, Jiang, and Kim (2009), Brav, Jiang, and Kim (2015), and Brav,
Jiang, and Li (2022). For evidence regarding negative e¤ects, see Cremers, Masconale, and Sepe (2017),
deHaan, Larcker, and McClure (2019), and Baker (2021).
   3
     Forbes has commented that “Ackman successfully extracted short-term value from the company while
hurting long-term shareholders” and “Wendy’s never recovered from the loss of Tim Horton’s.” See Forbes,
“Some Activist Investors Come Up Short In Creating Shareholder Value,” 05/17/2016.



                                                       2
that destroy value. Some of these proposals punish short-termism by making activists’ exit
more di¢ cult: In her campaign for the 2016 presidential election, Hillary Clinton called out
“hit-and-run activists whose goal is to force an immediate payout” and proposed to substan-
tially increase the short-term capital gains tax rate and increase the horizon it applies to,
changes which were also put forward by Laurence Fink and endorsed by many other promi-
nent …gures such as Warren Bu¤ett and John Bogle.4 The SEC has expressed concerns about
“whether short-term gains to activism are at the expense of long-term corporate growth”and
implemented in 2024 new rules that restrict activists’ time window to two business days for
making a disclosure when they start selling their stake.5 In contrast, another set of policies sug-
gested to combat short-termism take a di¤erent route and instead reward activists for keeping
their stake longer, such as reducing long-term capital gains taxes (which was also part of Clin-
ton’s and Fink’s proposals mentioned above), or giving activists additional perks for holding
their stake long-term (e.g., additional voting rights or a higher dividend rate).6
    A second channel through which activist short-termism can manifest itself is moral hazard.
In particular, the activist can increase …rm value by exerting hidden e¤ort, where this e¤ort
can represent the activist’s due diligence, dedication of his resources, and behind-the-scenes
monitoring of the management to implement the intervention more e¤ectively (e.g., if the
intervention is a spin-o¤, then structuring, pricing, and executing the spin-o¤ optimally; if
it is …ring the CEO, then …nding a better replacement for the CEO; if it is reducing costs,
then cutting costs e¢ ciently). However, as already established by the theoretical blockholder
literature, activists’ ability to sell their stake undermines their incentives to exert e¤ort.7
Therefore, this literature posits that making it more di¢ cult for activists to exit should alleviate
the moral hazard problem, by incentivizing the activist to keep his stake and thus, to exert
e¤ort. While a particular focus of this literature has been on liquidity, the same reasoning
   4
     See NYT DealBook, “Hillary Clinton Aim Is to Thwart Quick Buck on Wall Street,” 7/27/2015; NYT
DealBook, “BlackRock’s Chief, Laurence Fink, Urges Other C.E.O.s to Stop Being So Nice to Investors,”
4/13/2015; and Aspen Institute, “Overcoming Short-termism,” 9/9/2009.
   5
     Speci…cally, the SEC’s new rules requires that Schedule 13D amendments be …led within two business
days, which became e¤ective in 2024 (see sec.gov, “SEC Adopts Amendments to Rules Governing Bene…cial
Ownership Reporting,” 10/10/2023). Indeed, tightening 13D …ling windows to combat activist short-termism
has been in the SEC’s agenda for a long time (see sec.gov, “Activism, Short-Termism, and the SEC: Remarks
at the 21st Annual Stanford Directors’College,” 6/23/2015).
   6
     For instance, the Florange law in France doubles a shareholder’s voting rights after holding the shares for
two years. To encourage long-term investing, Toyota issued a special type of loyalty shares in 2015 with an
annual dividend yield increasing from 0.5% in the …rst year to 2.5% in the …fth year (see WSJ, “Q&A: Toyota’s
New Type of Share, and Why It’s Controversial”, 6/17/2015).
   7
     See Section 5.1.2 in the survey by Edmans and Holderness (2017). The history of this argument goes back
to Co¤ee (1991) and Bhide (1993).


                                                       3
implies that policies that punish short-termism, as well as those that reward long-termism
(such as policies mentioned above), should mitigate the moral hazard problem as well.
    In this paper, I build a theoretical model of activist short-termism to analyze the impact
of liquidity and the policies aimed at combatting short-termism. The main questions that the
paper addresses are as follows: If stricter regulation or lower liquidity eliminates the value-
destroying activists and at the same time provides incentives for other activists to create more
value, does it always increase the value created in interventions? Is there any tension between
policies that aim to enhance governance forcefully and activists’ endogenous incentives to
improve …rm value? And if there is such a tension, then what kind of policies are more likely
to create value than others?
    I …nd that making the activist’s exit more di¢ cult can increase …rm value if there is only
moral hazard or only adverse selection. However, it destroys total …rm value (that is, the total
value of all …rms) when both moral hazard and adverse selection are present at the same time,
even if it eliminates only the value-destroying activists. Moreover, even policies that reward
long-termism can destroy total …rm value. Nevertheless, when I compare the e¤ectiveness of
di¤erent policies, I …nd that policies rewarding long-termism are least likely to destroy total
…rm value. The key result driving these implications is that when the moral hazard problem is
binding, a higher number of value-destroying activists results in a higher probability of e¤ort
by the value-creating activists, and as a result of this higher e¤ort, average …rm value strictly
increases.
    I start with the following baseline model in Section 2. There is a …rm and an activist with a
stake in this …rm. The activist’s intervention in the …rm is either “good”or “bad”, which is the
private information of the activist: In the former case, the activist’s intervention increases the
…rm’s value and the activist can further increase this value by exerting (unobservable) e¤ort
when intervening. In the latter, the activist’s intervention destroys …rm value.8 The main
friction in the model is that, as alluded to earlier, it takes time for the impact of the activist’s
intervention on …rm value to be revealed (i.e., become public information), and the activist can
sell his stake in the company (i.e., “exit”) before the change in …rm value is revealed. However,
with some probability, the activist has to sell his stake due to a liquidity shock, and therefore
the market cannot perfectly distinguish whether the activist has to sell for this exogenous
(liquidity) reason or because he chooses to sell even if he does not have to.
    The exit opportunity of the activist creates short-term incentives for him not to exert e¤ort.
   8
     To simplify the exposition, I assume that the activist with a bad intervention cannot improve the e¤ect
of his intervention on …rm value by exerting e¤ort. That said, the main results are robust to relaxing this
assumption, as I discuss in Section 4.1.


                                                     4
To see this, consider the case where the activist’s intervention is always good. Then, for any
cost of e¤ort, the activist shirks with some probability. This is because if he exerted e¤ort with
certainty, then the stock price would incorporate this expectation, and therefore the activist
would have incentives to shirk and sell his stake instead. In other words, in equilibrium, the
…rst-best is not achieved due to the possibility of making short-term trading pro…ts.
    The primary result of the baseline model is that if the moral hazard problem is binding
(that is, the activist with a good intervention sometimes shirks and sometimes exerts e¤ort),
then average …rm value is higher when the probability that the activist is implementing a
bad intervention is higher. This is because the value-destroying activist (i.e., the activist that
implements a bad intervention) always sells his stake, and therefore as the probability that the
activist is destroying value increases, the stock price reacts more negatively upon the activist’s
sale decision. As a result, the incentives of the value-creating activist (i.e., the activist that
implements a good intervention) to keep his stake until the change in …rm value is revealed
increases. In turn, this activist internalizes the e¤ect of his actions on the actual …rm value
more, and therefore his incentives to exert e¤ort to further increase value also get stronger.
    Importantly, I show that this positive e¤ect dominates the greater value destruction induced
by the higher probability that the activist is implementing a value-destroying intervention. The
intuition is as follows. As the probability that the activist is destroying value increases, the
activist with a good intervention increases the probability that he exerts e¤ort to a certain
point. In particular, his higher e¤ort increases the average stock price upon his exit to the
point where he becomes once again indi¤erent between exerting e¤ort (and keeping his stake
unless hit by a liquidity shock) vs. shirking (and selling his stake). The critical observation is
that the impact of a higher probability of e¤ort has more positive impact on the unconditional
average value of the …rm compared to the stock price conditional on the exit of the activist.
This is because upon the exit of the activist, the market assigns a lower probability that the
activist has exerted e¤ort, since such an activist does not exit unless he has to. Overall, to put
it di¤erently, one kind of short-termism (i.e., not exerting su¢ cient e¤ort while still creating
value) stemming from moral hazard can be alleviated with what can be seen as even more
severe short-termism (i.e., outright value destruction) stemming from adverse selection.
    Next, I introduce and analyze the main model of the paper in Section 3 in order to study
policy and liquidity implications. In particular, I generalize the baseline model to a multiple
…rm and multiple activist setup, where each activist is matched to a di¤erent …rm and now
decides whether to acquire a stake in his matched …rm or not, as well as whether to intervene
or not.


                                                5
    I …nd that the implications of greater liquidity (i.e., higher noise trading, which makes it
easier for the activist to camou‡age his trade), as well as policy implications, are vastly di¤erent
when there is only moral hazard or adverse selection, compared to the case where both are
present. To begin with, suppose that there is only moral hazard but no adverse selection. In
other words, there is no uncertainty about the value of the activist’s intervention if he does not
exert e¤ort, but the activist can increase this value by exerting hidden e¤ort. Then, in parallel
with the aforementioned literature on blockholder intervention and trading, I …nd that lower
liquidity at the exit stage (i.e., when the activist decides whether to sell his stake or keep it) as
well as other policies that make the activist’s exit more di¢ cult (e.g., higher short-term capital
gains taxes or tighter disclosure thresholds for selling) can increase total …rm value, because
they incentivize the activist to hold his stake, and in turn, to exert e¤ort in the …rst place.
    Next, suppose that there is only adverse selection but no moral hazard (i.e., the activist has
private information about the value of his intervention, but he cannot increase it by exerting
e¤ort). Then, lower liquidity at the exit stage, as well as other policies that make activists’
exit more di¢ cult, can again increase total …rm value. This is because these changes reduce
the pro…t that activists can make in equilibrium, thereby reducing the number of activists
that implement value-destroying interventions. Note that an activist with a value-destroying
intervention can still make a pro…t because when the activist sells his stake, the market cannot
perfectly distinguish him from activists with value-creating interventions. For the same reason,
a value-destroying activist can prefer intervening over not intervening, because the latter gives
him a payo¤ of zero.
    Then, I combine moral hazard and adverse selection, and I …nd very di¤erent results from
above. In particular, I …nd that if the moral hazard problem is binding and there is adverse
selection in equilibrium, then lower liquidity at the exit stage as well as other policies that
make activists’exit more di¢ cult destroy total …rm value. Strikingly, this is true even if these
policies only eliminate the activists with value-destroying interventions and the number of
activists who implement good interventions does not change.
    Importantly, this result arises because as the number of activists who implement bad inter-
ventions decreases, activists with good interventions exert e¤ort with much lower probability,
as it was shown in the baseline model. Therefore, another way to rephrase this result is that as
formal liquidity (i.e., noise trading) decreases or other policies that make activists’exit more
di¢ cult are implemented, due to the resulting reduction in bad interventions, implicit liquidity
imposed on activists with good interventions increases so much that they shirk and exit with
much higher probability.


                                                 6
    Next, I analyze the implications of policies that reward long-termism, i.e., lowering long-
term capital gains taxes or giving the activist additional perks for holding the stake long-term
(e.g., a higher dividend rate or more voting power).9 I …nd that when moral hazard and adverse
selection are both present, then policies that reward long-termism can hurt total …rm value
as well. The core intuition for this result is similar to the one explained above: To enjoy the
bene…ts from holding the stake long-term, some activists with value-destroying interventions
switch from intervening and exiting to not intervening and keeping their stake. However, since
the market rationally anticipates this e¤ect and exit price adjusts, this has a negative impact on
the endogenous incentives of the activists with good interventions to exert e¤ort. Nevertheless,
as I explain in more detail in the paper, compared to policies that make the activist’s exit more
di¢ cult as well as lower liquidity at the exit stage, I …nd that policies that reward long-termism
are less likely to destroy total …rm value.
    Finally, to demonstrate the robustness of the results, I discuss several extensions in Section
4, including (i) allowing the activist with a bad intervention to improve the impact of his
intervention on …rm value by exerting e¤ort, (ii) micro-founding the activist’s e¤ort as a search
among di¤erent projects, (iii) generalizing binary e¤ort to continuous e¤ort, (iv) relaxing the
assumption that a bad (good) intervention always destroys (creates) …rm value, (v) relaxing
the assumption that the activist can intervene unilaterally, (vi) allowing for partial sale as well
as dynamic disclosure, (vii) incorporating the activist’s career concerns and skill, and (viii)
choosing among multiple activists.
    It is important to note that the model has implications beyond shareholder activism as well,
as I also discuss in Section 4. In particular, the activist in the baseline model can also represent
other kinds of blockholders who are subject to short-termism: For example, venture capitalists
and entrepreneurs are often criticized for pushing so many “unicorns” to IPOs despite not
demonstrating pro…tability and fooling investors with infeasible business plans. Therefore, the
baseline model implies the optimality of value destruction by such types of blockholders as
well.
   9
     Another example is proxy access, which has been adopted by 76% of S&P 500 …rms as of 2019 (compared to
1% in 2014) and allows shareholders to nominate directors to the board on the company’s proxy ballot if they
have held a minimum stake for a certain period of time (typically three years), making such nominations much
less costly for the qualifying shareholders. See HLS Forum on Corp. Governance and Financial Regulation,
“Proxy Access: A Five-Year Review,” 2/4/2020.




                                                     7
1.1       Related literature
This paper contributes to multiple strands of the literature. The …rst strand is the large
literature on short-termism that primarily goes back to Narayanan (1985) and Stein (1988,
1989). In this literature, the closest papers to mine are the ones that argue short-termism might
have positive e¤ects due to some frictions (e.g., Bolton, Scheinkman, and Xiong (2006), Laux
(2012), Hackbarth, Rivera, and Yong (2018), Xiong and Jiang (2021), Donaldson, Malenko,
and Piacentino (2020), Thakor (2021)). Marinovic and Varas (2024) study short-termism by
combining moral hazard and adverse selection and focusing on IPOs for their implications.
In contrast to these papers, the focus in my paper is to analyze the impact of liquidity and
di¤erent policies on activist short-termism. I also show that the presence of value-destroying
activists can be optimal for …rm value, because it strengthens the incentives of other activists
to exert more e¤ort and create more value as a result.
    The second strand my paper is closely related to is the blockholder literature, which is
broadly divided into two branches: “voice”and “exit”.10 My paper falls under the voice cate-
gory, where the blockholder intervenes in a …rm to in‡uence the actions or projects undertaken
(e.g., Shleifer and Vishny (1986), Admati et al. (1994), Burkart et al. (1997), Cohn and Rajan
(2013), Corum and Levit (2019), Corum (2023)). Under the voice category, a further sub-
set of papers study the relation between liquidity and the blockholder’s incentives to engage
in an intervention (e.g., Kyle and Vila (1991), Bolton and von Thadden (1998), Kahn and
Winton (1998), Maug (1998), Noe (2002), Aghion, Bolton, and Tirole (2004), Faure-Grimaud
and Gromb (2004), Back et al. (2018)). Among these, the closest paper to mine is Maug
(1998), who shows that higher liquidity might increase …rm value. However, in his model, this
occurs because the blockholder utilizes higher liquidity to increase his stake. In contrast, my
paper combines moral hazard with adverse selection, and it shows that higher liquidity can
strictly increase total …rm value even if the blockholder never increases his stake as a result
but utilizes this higher liquidity only to sell his shares. I also show that other policies that
make the blockholders’exit more di¢ cult (e.g., tightening disclosure rules for selling or raising
short-term taxes) can result in a lower total …rm value.
    Finally, the literature on governance through the threat of exit studies how a blockholder
can in‡uence the decisions of the manager of the …rm, not through voice, but because the exit of
the blockholder can reveal negative information about the …rm and hence punish the manager
(e.g., Admati and P‡eiderer (2009), Edmans (2009), Cvijanovic, Dasgupta, and Zachariadis
 10
      For surveys on voice and exit, see, e.g., Edmans (2014) and Edmans and Holderness (2017).



                                                      8
(2022)).11 In contrast to these papers, in my paper, there is no other player that a¤ects the
…rm value other than the blockholder.


2      The Baseline Model
2.1     Setup
There is a …rm and an activist shareholder (in the baseline model, the activist can alternatively
represent an entrepreneur or a venture capitalist; see Section 4.9 for details). The only other
player in the game is the market maker. The activist’s intervention a¤ects the value of the …rm
(I use “intervention” and “action” interchangeably). I denote the value of the …rm in status
quo (i.e., if the activist does not intervene) by Q0 . The activist has stake in the …rm, and
he can have either of the two types of interventions: good and bad. Whether the activist’s
intervention is good or bad is his private information. The activist with a bad intervention
always destroys …rm value, and I denote the impact of the bad intervention on the …rm value
by L < 0. In contrast, the activist with a good intervention always increases the value of
the …rm. In particular, if he exerts an (unobservable) e¤ort, then the …rm value increases
by H > 0 but the activist incurs a cost of c > 0. If he does not exert e¤ort, then the
…rm value increases by M > 0, where M < H . I also refer to the activist with a good
(bad) intervention as the value-creating (value-destroying) activist. I denote the time at which
the activist intervenes by t = 1 (i.e., the “intervention” stage). At this stage, the activist
simultaneously decides whether to intervene and whether to exert e¤ort (for a discussion of
this assumption, see Section 4.1, where I also relax the assumption that the activist with a bad
intervention cannot improve …rm value by exerting e¤ort). Note that at t = 1, NPV of the
intervention (i.e., the e¤ect of the intervention on the …rm value) is the private information of
the activist, as well as whether he has exerted e¤ort. That said, if the activist intervenes, then
this is immediately observable.
    The main friction of the model is that it takes time for the NPV of the activist’s intervention
to be revealed (i.e., become public information), and the activist can sell his stake before then.
In particular, the activist can sell his stake by t = 2 (i.e., the “exit” stage), and the NPV
becomes public information at t = 3 (i.e., the “realization” stage). At the exit stage, with
  11
    Some papers combine voice and exit (e.g., Edmans and Manso (2011), Dasgupta and Piacentino (2015),
Song (2015), Fos and Kahn (2019), Edmans, Levit, and Reilly (2019), Levit (2019)). For other models where
a blockholder’s trading impacts the manager’s decisions, see, e.g., Khanna and Mathews (2012) and Goldman
and Strobl (2013).


                                                   9
probability the activist has to sell his stake (e.g., due to a liquidity shock or an attractive
outside opportunity), and with probability 1        the activist has the ‡exibility to choose whether
to sell his stake or not. If the activist decides to sell, he has to disclose this information before
selling his stake, which is an assumption I relax in the full model (Section 3). The disclosure
is observed by the market maker, who determines the stock price based on this information.
For simplicity, I assume that the activist can sell either all of his stake or none of it. I relax
this assumption in Section 4.4.
    There is no discounting in the game. I also ignore the short-term and long-term capital
gains taxes in the baseline model. I incorporate taxes as well as many other aspects in the full
model in Section 3.


2.2    Analysis under No Voluntary Exit
In this brief section, I analyze a simpli…ed version of the baseline model, which constitutes the
…rst-best benchmark of the model. Speci…cally, in this benchmark, the only di¤erence with
respect to the baseline model is that the activist cannot voluntarily exit (i.e., sell his stake)
before the NPV is revealed, unless he is hit with a liquidity shock. Therefore, the activist has
to exit with probability (which is the probability of a liquidity shock to the activist), and
has to keep his stake with probability 1         . While the assumption that the activist cannot
voluntarily exit is arti…cial, it will help convey the crucial role that voluntary exit plays in the
next section. In particular, under this assumption, the result below follows.

Lemma 1 Suppose that the activist cannot sell his stake before the NPV is revealed unless he
is hit with a liquidity shock. Then, when the activist implements a good intervention, he never
exerts e¤ort if c > c and always exerts e¤ort if

                                  c<c     (1     ) (   H      M) :                               (1)

    Note that I solve for the Perfect Bayesian Equilibria of the game. The intuition of Lemma
1 is as follows. With probability , the activist has to exit, and at this stage the market
cannot distinguish if he has exerted e¤ort or not. Therefore, conditional on intervening, the
stock price at the exit stage is the same regardless of whether he has exerted e¤ort or not. For
this reason, in this case, he receives no bene…t for exerting e¤ort. However, with probability
1     , the activist has to keep his stake until the NPV is revealed, and hence his payo¤ is
  ( H      M ) higher if his intervention is good and he has exerted e¤ort. Therefore, when the



                                                 10
activist implements a good intervention, he never exerts e¤ort if c > c, and he always exerts
e¤ort if c < c, where c is the activist’s cost of e¤ort. As a result, the …rst-best achieved when
c < c, and increasing the probability that the intervention is bad always decreases …rm value.
However, as I show in the next section, this result changes once the activist is allowed to exit
voluntarily.


2.3    Analysis under Voluntary Exit
In this section, I solve the baseline model without imposing any additional restriction. Recall
that at the exit stage (after the intervention is implemented but before the NPV of intervention
is revealed), with probability the activist has to sell his stake (e.g., due to a liquidity shock),
and with probability 1         he chooses whether to sell his stake or keep it until the NPV is
revealed.
    I again solve for the Perfect Bayesian Equilibria of the game. All proofs are in the appendix.
I denote by the probability that the activist has exerted e¤ort when implementing a good
intervention, and I denote by q the probability that the implemented intervention is bad. Also,
conditional on the activist intervening and then exiting (i.e., selling his stake before the NPV is
realized), I denote the expected NPV of the intervention by P . Recall that before the activist
sells his stake, he has to disclose that he will sell (which is an assumption I relax in the full
model in Section 3). Since the value of the …rm when no intervention is implemented is Q0 ,
once the activist discloses that he will exit the stock price becomes Q0 + P , which I refer to
as the “exit price”. Since Q0 and (where the latter is the activist’s stake) are exogenous
constants, Q0 has no e¤ect on any of the results, and therefore I normalize Q0 = 0 throughout
the text in this section to simplify the notation (for a discussion of endogenous , see Section
4.5). All of the proofs hold for any Q0 0. I start the analysis with the following lemma.

Lemma 2 Conditional on implementing the intervention:

  (i) For any q 2 [0; 1), the activist with a good intervention never exerts e¤ort (i.e.,    = 0)
      if c > c and exerts e¤ort with positive probability (i.e.,  > 0) if c < c, where c is given
      by (1).

 (ii) Suppose that c < c. If the activist’s intervention is good with certainty (i.e., q = 0), then
      he shirks with positive probability (i.e.,   < 1).

   Let us …rst understand the intuition behind part (i) of Lemma 2. Conditional on intervening,
the payo¤ of the activist with a good intervention from shirking is given by [ P + (1

                                                11
 ) max fP; M g]; since the payo¤ of the stock is M if the activist waits until the NPV is
revealed, and it is P if he does not wait and chooses to exit instead. In contrast, the payo¤
of the activist from exerting e¤ort is given by [ P + (1      ) H ] c, since the exit price P
always satis…es P        H (in other words, the activist weakly prefers to keep his stake if he
exerts e¤ort, since the market’s expectation is weakly worse at the exit stage). Therefore, the
activist exerts e¤ort only if

                [ P + (1      )   H]   c         [ P + (1     ) max fP;   M g]

                                           , c     (1       ) (   H   max fP;    M g) :        (2)

However, if c > c, then (2) is never satis…ed, and therefore the activist never exerts e¤ort. This
is because then, even if the exit price P is so low that the activist prefers to keep his stake, he
still does not exert e¤ort because for him, it is not worth to incur the cost c to increase the
stock payo¤ by H           M . For this reason, throughout the analysis in the baseline model, I
will focus on the case where c < c.
     In turn, part (ii) of Lemma 2 introduces the core ine¢ ciency in the paper: It states that
even given c < c, if an activist always implements a good intervention, then he sometimes
shirks. Note that this in contrast with Lemma 1 in the previous section, where the channel of
voluntary exit was shut down, and it was shown that as a result, the …rst-best was achieved if
c < c.
     To see the reason behind this result, suppose for a moment that if an activist intervenes,
it is always a good intervention and he always exerts e¤ort (q = 0 and = 1). Then the exit
price is P = H , which is also equal to the eventual payo¤ of the stock if the activist keeps
his stake after exerting e¤ort. However, then the activist gains nothing by exerting e¤ort and
keeping his stake until the NPV is revealed. For this reason, the activist would instead strictly
prefer to shirk and exit at the price of P = H , and save the cost of e¤ort by doing so. In
other words, such an exit price is too high to incentivize the activist to exert e¤ort, since it
instead motivates the activist to shirk and exit.
     For this reason, when the implemented intervention is good with certainty, the activist
does not always exert e¤ort, even though the …rst-best would require him to exert e¤ort. As
mentioned above, this is the e¢ ciency at the heart of the paper. Interestingly, as we will
see further below, increasing the likelihood that the activist’s intervention is destroying value
actually alleviates this problem. Before showing this result, however, we need to characterize
the equilibrium. To that end, I solve the model backwards: In particular, I …rst derive the


                                                 12
activist’s equilibrium behavior at the exit stage (in the lemma below), and then use it to solve
for the probability of e¤ort.

Lemma 3 In any equilibrium for any q 2 [0; 1), conditional on implementing the intervention:

  (i) The activist with a bad intervention always exits.

 (ii) If the activist with a good intervention exerts e¤ort, he does not exit unless hit by a
      liquidity shock.

(iii) If the activist with a good intervention shirks, he always exits.

     It is relatively straightforward to understand the exit strategy of the activist if he has a
good intervention and has exerted e¤ort, or he has a bad intervention, given by parts (i) and
(ii) of Lemma 3, respectively. Let us start with the former. As long as the implemented
intervention is not always bad (that is, for any q 2 [0; 1)), the exit price P always satis…es
P > L , because there is a positive probability that the activist has implemented a good
intervention and is selling his stake involuntarily. However, the activist that has implemented
a bad intervention knows that the market value of the …rm will be L if he keeps his stake,
and therefore strictly prefers to sell his stake at the exit stage before the NPV is revealed.
     On the other end of the spectrum, the activist that has implemented a good intervention
never exits if he has exerted e¤ort, because the NPV is not revealed at the exit stage yet. In
other words, if he is going to exit before he consequences of his e¤ort is revealed, then he has
no reason to exert e¤ort in the …rst place, yielding part (ii) of Lemma 3.
     Finally, part (iii) of Lemma 3 states that the activist always exits if he has implemented
a good intervention and shirked. Intuitively, this activist keeps his stake only if the exit price
is weakly lower than the actual value of the …rm (that is, P          M ). However, whenever this
is the case, the activist is strictly better o¤ by exerting e¤ort, and keeping his stake unless
hit by a liquidity shock. This is because by doing so, he increases the …rm value from M to
   H , and hence his payo¤ increases by (1      ) ( H       M)    c, which is positive due to c < c
and (1). Therefore, if the exit price is indeed low such that P        M , the activist with a good
intervention will always exert e¤ort. In other words, this activist does not exert e¤ort only if
the exit price is high (P > M ), and then, it is always pro…table for him to exit.
     Note that an implication of Lemma 3 is that as a function of and for any given q, the
exit price P in any equilibrium is given by

                                  (1   q)    H + (1    q) (1    )   M +q   L
                     P ( ; q) =                                                ;               (3)
                                            1   (1    q) (1     )

                                                13
because (3) is the expected NPV of the implemented intervention conditional on the infor-
mation that the activist is exiting. In turn, the exit price P determines the incentives of the
activist with a good intervention to exert e¤ort. In particular, when implementing a good
intervention, Lemma 3 implies that the activist chooses between shirking (and exiting) vs.
exerting e¤ort (and keeping his stake unless hit by a liquidity shock). The former gives the
activist a payo¤ of P , while the latter gives him a payo¤ of [ P + (1    ) H ] c. Therefore,
the activist with a good intervention is indi¤erent between these two options if and only if

                                          (1     )P = (1           )   H   c;                  (4)

Plugging (3) in (4) yields the solution (6) given in Proposition 1 below. Importantly, if (6) does
not exceed 1, then it is the equilibrium level of e¤ort . To see why, note that if        were any
                                                                                     12
larger than (6), then (3) implies that the resulting P would be strictly larger. Intuitively,
the market incorporates the higher probability of e¤ort by the activist in the exit price, since
the activist that exerts e¤ort still has to exit with probability . As a result, the activist would
instead strictly prefer to shirk and exit, since the exit price would be too tempting for the
activist. In contrast, if were any smaller than (6), then P would be too low, and hence the
activist would strictly prefer to keep his stake (unless hit with a liquidity shock). Then, since
the activist would rationally anticipate that he will keep his stake, he would exert e¤ort (as
also implied by part (ii) of Lemma 3).
     The situation where the activist with a good intervention does not always exert e¤ort (that
is,     < 1) arises if and only if q (i.e., the probability that the implemented intervention is
bad) is not too large, that is q < q. The formal expression for the threshold q is given by (5)
in Proposition 1 below. This is because intuitively, as mentioned above, if the activist with
a good intervention always exerted e¤ort then the exit price P would become too large to
incentivize the activist to exert e¤ort.
     Importantly, in this region (where q < q), as q increases      increases as well. The reason
is that for a given , if the likelihood that the activist is destroying value is higher (i.e., if q
is higher), this has a more negative impact on the exit price P . In turn, the resulting lower
exit price incentivizes the value-creating activist (i.e., the activist that implements a good
intervention) to keep his stake until the NPV is revealed. Therefore, the activist internalizes
the impact of his actions on the …rm more, and exerts e¤ort with a higher probability (i.e.,
    increases). In particular, to counteract the negative impact of the value-destroying activist
 12
      I show this result formally in the proof of Proposition 1.



                                                        14
(i.e., the activist that implements a bad intervention), the value-creating activist increases the
likelihood that he exerts e¤ort until the exit price reaches its original level, that is, until (4) is
established once again.
    In contrast, if q is larger (i.e., q   q), then for any probability of e¤ort, the resulting
P is always low (in particular, it is lower than the level implied by (4)), and therefore the
value-creating activist is always incentivized to exert e¤ort (i.e.,      = 1). This threshold of
q is formally given in Proposition 1 below, which summarizes what is described above and
characterizes the equilibrium e¤ort level     and exit price P .

Proposition 1 Let
                                                                             c
                                                                   1
                                                 q                                  c ;                                 (5)
                                                              H              L

where q 2 (0; 1). For any q, the equilibrium is unique, and in equilibrium:

  (i) If q < q, then

                                                                                                    c
                                                                                                        !
                                         1                    q(        M              L)   1
                                =                        1+                        c                        2 (0; 1);   (6)
                                     1       q                          H                   M

                                                         1     c
                           P    =        H                         :                                                    (7)
                                                     1

      Moreover,        is strictly increasing in q.

 (ii) If q   q, then      = 1, and
                                                             (1         q)         H +q         L
                                             P =                                                                        (8)
                                                             1         (1        q) (1          )
    As mentioned earlier, if q is not too large, then increases as q increases. In other words,
as the probability that the implemented intervention is bad increases, then the activist with
a good intervention exerts e¤ort with a higher probability. However, which of these e¤ects
dominate for the value of the …rm? Denoting the expected NPV of the intervention by V , and
noting that it is given by

                         V ( ; q) = (1       q)              H + (1              q) (1      )       M +q       L        (9)

and that V also represents the unconditional …rm value, the next proposition formalizes that
the higher probability of e¤ort dominates the negative impact of value destruction and the …rm
value is maximized at q = q.

                                                                   15
Proposition 2 V is strictly increasing in q if q < q, attains its unique maximum at q = q,
and it is strictly decreasing in q if q > q.

    As q increases, why does the positive e¤ect of a higher likelihood of e¤ort dominate the
negative e¤ect of a higher likelihood of value destruction? As the probability that activist
is implementing a value-destroying intervention increases, the activist that is implementing a
good intervention increases the probability that he exerts e¤ort to a certain point. In particular,
as explained previously, the probability of e¤ort increases until the stock price P upon his
exit reaches the point given by (4), where he becomes once again indi¤erent between exerting
e¤ort (and keeping his stake) vs. not exerting e¤ort (and selling his stake).
    The critical observation is that the impact of higher probability of e¤ort has more positive
impact on the unconditional average value of the …rm V compared to the stock price conditional
on the exit of the activist, P . This is because upon the exit of the activist, the market correctly
assigns a lower probability that the activist has exerted e¤ort, since such an activist does
not exit unless he has to. Therefore, as the value-creating activist exerts more e¤ort and
the activist’s exit price P reaches its original level, this higher e¤ort results in even a larger
increase in the unconditional …rm value V and pushes it up beyond its original level. This is
how the average …rm value increases with the likelihood that the activist is implementing a
value-destroying intervention, and it holds all the way up until this likelihood is su¢ ciently
high (i.e., q = q) so that the value-creating activist always exerts e¤ort.
    However, beyond q, increasing q does not provide any additional bene…t but only harm to
the …rm value. Intuitively, the value-creating activist always exerts e¤ort at this point, and
therefore it cannot increase any further with the likelihood that the activist is implementing a
value-destroying intervention. As a result, the average …rm value V decreases as q increases
further, and hence the maximum …rm value is attained at q = q.
    An implication of Propositions 1 and 2 is that the region where V (q) increases with q is
not a narrow parameter space: Indeed, this result holds as long as the moral hazard problem
is binding, that is,    < 1. Moreover, q strictly increases in c. In other words, V increases in
q for a larger range of q if the moral hazard problem is more severe, because then the activist
with a good intervention needs more incentives to exert e¤ort. These results are laid out in
part (i) of the corollary below.

Corollary 1 (i) V (q) strictly increases with q if the moral hazard problem is binding, that
    is, if < 1. Moreover, q strictly increases with the cost of exerting e¤ort, c.

 (ii) q strictly decreases and V (q) strictly increases as    L decreases.


                                                16
    Another interesting result, which is described by part (ii), is that the maximum …rm value
that can be achieved across all q (i.e., V (q)) actually increases as L decreases. Therefore, it
might be desirable to have the activist to destroy a lot of value when he has a bad interven-
tion, and this might provide an advantage that cannot be achieved by simply increasing the
probability that the activist is implementing a bad intervention that destroys less value.
    While this result may seem counter-intuitive, the reason is as follows. At q = q, the
value-creating activist always exerts e¤ort, and hence exits with only probability . However,
the value-destroying activist always exits. Therefore, the unconditional probability that the
activist exits is given by q + (1 q), and the average value of the …rm conditional on the
activist’s exit is equal to exit price, P . On the other hand, the activist does not exit with an
unconditional probability of (1 q)(1         ), which is given by the probability that the activist
has a good intervention and is not hit with a liquidity shock. Conditional on this event, the
…rm value is given by H . Combining, the unconditional …rm value V (q) can be summarized
as

                             V (q) = [q + (1         q)]P + (1       q)(1       )   H;                        (10)

where P is given by (7).13 Importantly, (7) does not depend on L or q, and therefore the
expression given by (10) strictly increases as q decreases.
   In other words, the unconditional …rm value V (q) is given by a weighted average of the
…rm value conditional on the activist’s exit and conditional on activist keeping his stake.
Importantly, the value of the …rm conditional on either of these events do not change with q
or L . This is because if the activist is not exiting, then it must be he has implemented a
good intervention and exerted e¤ort, and therefore the …rm value must be H . Similarly, if
the activist is exiting, then the conditional expected …rm value is given by the price P that
keeps the activist with a good intervention indi¤erent between exerting e¤ort and not, that is,
the price P that satis…es (4).14 In other words, the conditional …rm value in either of these
two cases does not have anything to do with the likelihood of a bad intervention per se, or how
much value it destroys.
   However, the probabilities of these two events (the activist exiting vs. not exiting) does
depend on q. Importantly, as q decreases, the probability of no exit increases, since the value-
destroying activist exits more frequently than the value-creating activist that has exerted e¤ort.
  13
     Plugging (5) in (8) reveals that (7) applies at q = q as well. Note that this is also implied by the continuity
of P (q) in q.
  14
     In particular, q is the highest value of q such that this indi¤erence holds.


                                                        17
Therefore, as q decreases, the unconditional …rm value (10) increases.
    Going back to the impact of L , the reason why V (q) increases as L decreases is that
q decreases as a result. Intuitively, q is the smallest value of q for which the value-creating
activist always exerts e¤ort. The activist is motivated to exert e¤ort only if the exit price
is low, and the value-destroying activist has a more negative impact on the exit price if he
destroys even more value. Therefore, if L is smaller, full e¤ort is reached at a smaller q,
implying that q is smaller. To put it di¤erently, if the activist with a bad intervention destroys
even more value, a lower likelihood of a bad intervention is su¢ cient to motivate the activist
with a good intervention to separate himself and keep his stake, in turn inducing him to exert
e¤ort.


3     Main Model
In this section, I generalize the baseline model to study policy implications as well as implica-
tions of liquidity. All proofs are in the online appendix.


3.1    The Setup
While the setup in this section shares many characteristics with the baseline model, there are
also many di¤erences. In particular, I generalize the baseline model to a multiple …rm and
multiple activist setup, where each activist is matched to a di¤erent …rm and now decides
whether to acquire a stake in his matched …rm or not, as well as whether to intervene or not.
At the same time, I also incorporate into the model: (i) trading disclosure thresholds for the
activist when he purchases as well as sells his stake, (ii) short-term vs. long-term capital gains
tax rates that apply if the activist exits vs. keeps his stake, respectively, (iii) additional perks
for holding the stake long-term (e.g., receiving a higher dividend rate or more voting power
if he holds the shares longer), and (iv) the activist’s cost for intervention. The details are as
follows.
    To begin with, instead of one …rm and one activist, I now assume that there are measure
  F of identical …rms and a measure BL of ex-ante identical activists. The only players in the
game are these activists and a market maker. I add an initial stage (denoted by t = 0) to
the timeline in the baseline model where each activist is matched with a di¤erent …rm. Upon
matching, each activist has a good intervention with probability , and a bad intervention with
probability 1     . I denote the measure of activists with good (bad) interventions by G ( B ).


                                                18
Note that G = BL and B = (1               ) BL . I assume that the measure of good interventions
is smaller than the measure of …rms, that is, G < F . Note that whether his intervention is
good or bad is the private information of each activist. As in the baseline model, I also refer
to the activist with a good (bad) intervention as a value-creating (value-destroying) activist.
    Upon observing the quality of his intervention, each activist decides whether to acquire
a stake in his matched …rm or not (the stake size is exogenous, an assumption which I
discuss in Section 4.5). I assume that the market is perfectly liquid and hence the market
maker cannot infer any information about the activist’s stock accumulation if the activist does
not make any disclosure (I relax this assumption in Section 3.4). If the activist decides to buy
a stake, he does this purchase continuously, with a disclosure in between: First, he continuously
buys shares until accumulating a stake of 0 , and once he has accumulated this stake, he has
to disclose it. In this disclosure, he also needs to state whether he intends to intervene.15
Importantly, following the activist’s disclosure, the market maker determines the stock price
based on this information. After the disclosure, the activist accumulates the remaining stake
of       0 . I denote       0 = , where a lower (higher)   represents a tighter (looser) disclosure
threshold that applies when the activist buys shares.
    Note that in reality, the disclosure threshold might depend on whether the activist intends
to in‡uence …rm value (e.g., due to …ling 13G rather than 13D). Therefore, the disclosure
threshold might be di¤erent if the activist does not intend to intervene upon buying shares. To
capture this possibility, I denote the threshold for this case via 00 , where 00 > 0. That said,
as I show in the analysis, this particular disclosure threshold does not make any di¤erence for
the results.
    After the activist buys shares, at t = 1 he decides whether to intervene, and if he has a good
intervention, whether to exert e¤ort (these decisions are simultaneous for simplicity; see Section
4.1 for a discussion). As in the baseline model, if the activist with a good intervention exerts
an (unobservable) e¤ort, he incurs a cost of c > 0, and increases the NPV of the intervention
from M to H , where H > M > 0. Also recall that the NPV of the bad intervention
is L and cannot be improved by exerting e¤ort (for a discussion of this assumption, also
see Section 4.1). In addition, I also include a cost for intervention: Speci…cally, the activist
needs to incur a cost of ( +           ) to implement a good (bad) intervention, where > 0
and      > 0. I assume that the activist can always intervene if he would like to do so (in the
scenario that the activist needs to convince the management of the …rm or gather the support
  15
    Indeed, when …ling 13D, investors have to also complete state their “purpose of transaction”. For further
details, e.g., see https://www.investopedia.com/terms/s/schedule13d.asp.



                                                     19
of other shareholders to implement the intervention, includes these costs –see Section 4.3 for
a discussion). Here,       > 0 represents the additional cost to the activist, for example, due to
potential legal liability because of the value that the bad intervention destroys, or due to the
extra measures that the activist needs to take (such as hiding or falsifying some details about
the value that the intervention will generate) so that the market cannot immediately recognize
that this is a bad intervention.16 Therefore, a higher        is a proxy for increased accountability
or liability. Note that the cost was not relevant in the baseline model, because all the results
were conditional on implementation of the intervention.
    As in the baseline model, if the activist intervenes, then this information (but not the NPV
of the intervention) is immediately observed at the end of t = 1. At t = 2, the activist decides
whether to sell his stake (i.e., exit), which is before the NPV is revealed. In contrast to the
baseline model, however, I include disclosure thresholds at the exit stage as well. The activist’s
sale of his stake shares the same properties with the previous stage where he bought the shares:
The market is again perfectly liquid, so the market maker cannot make any inference about
the activist’s trading other than observing disclosures (which is an assumption I also relax in
Section 3.4). The activist sells his shares until he sells a stake of 1 (where 1 < ), then he
has to disclose that he has sold this stake, and …nally he sells his remaining stake           1 . To
keep the analysis simple, I restrict the activist’s decision to a binary space: He either keeps all
of his stake or sells all of it (in Section 4.4, I relax this assumption and allow partial sales). I
denote          1 = , where a lower (higher)      represents a tighter (looser) disclosure threshold
                                               17
that applies when the activist sells shares.
    Again, like in the baseline model, at the exit stage (t = 2) the activist has to sell his
stake with probability (e.g., due to a liquidity shock or an outside option). However, with
probability 1       , he has the ‡exibility to decide whether to exit at t = 2 or keep his stake
until t = 3. While making this decision, there are several factors that he considers. First of
all, the NPV is revealed at t = 3. Second, I incorporate capital gain taxes. In particular, the
activist pays a tax rate of s on his short-term gains (that is, if he sells at the exit stage), and
  16
      Note that if    < 0, then the adverse selection problem and the moral hazard problem never exist at the
same time. To see this, suppose that there exists an equilibrium where there are activists implementing good
and bad interventions, and some activists with good interventions shirk. However, the latter implies that this
cannot be an equilibrium, since a higher number of activists with bad interventions would start intervening.
This is because an activist with a good intervention always exits if he shirks (as I show in the analysis), and
he gets a nonnegative payo¤ from intervening, implying that an activist with a bad intervention gets a positive
payo¤ from intervening (since the NPV is not revealed by the exit stage).
   17
      Note that this disclosure threshold might be di¤erent as well if the activist has not intervened (again, for
example, due to …ling 13G rather than 13D). Therefore, I denote the threshold for this case via 01 , where
 0
 1 > 0. However, I also show in the analysis that this particular threshold does not matter for the results.



                                                       20
a tax rate of l on his long-term gains (that is, if he keeps his stake until the NPV is revealed),
where s       l . Third, I also include additional perks for holding the shares longer (e.g., a
higher dividend rate or more voting power). In particular, if the activist keeps his stake until
t = 3 rather than selling it at t = 2, then he gains an additional b 0 per share.

Parameter Speci…cations. Throughout the analysis, I make the parameter speci…cations
below. Importantly, all of the speci…cations in this model are generalizations of the parameter
speci…cations made in the baseline model, where it was assumed that s = l = 0, = 0,
b = 0, and c satis…es (1).
   To begin with, I assume that the cost of e¤ort is not too high, that is, c < min fc; c^g, where

               c         (1      l ) (1     )(       H      M) ;                                              (11)
               c^         (1     ) f( s         l)       H + (1          s ) (1         )(   H   M ) + bg :   (12)

Here, c < min fc; c^g holds under the assumptions of the baseline model. The reason for these
speci…cations is because if c > c, then the activist with a good intervention never exerts
e¤ort (as I show in Lemma 5 in Online Appendix B) and hence making the moral hazard
problem irrelevant, and if c > c^, then multiple equilibria exist that makes the analysis more
complicated.18
    I also assume that the additional bene…t b from holding the stake longer is not so high that
it completely o¤sets the cost of intervention or the cost of e¤ort, that is,

                                                     b < min f ; cg :

This assumption is automatically satis…ed in the baseline model (where b = 0). Finally, I also
assume that the short-term tax rate is not too high compared to long-term tax rate, that is,

                                                               c        (1        ) b
                                          s <    s       l +                            :                     (13)
                                                                   (1        )     H


This is because if this assumption is violated, as I show in Lemma 5 in Online Appendix B,
then the activist with a good intervention always exerts e¤ort (because he always keeps his
stake unless hit by a liquidity shock), making the moral hazard problem once again irrelevant.
Note that under the assumptions of the baseline model ( s = l = 0 and b = 0), (13) always
  18
     Nevertheless, I …nd in an unreported analysis that the main results continue to hold even if the assumption
c > c^ is relaxed.


                                                            21
holds.


3.2      Robustness of the Results from the Baseline Model
Before moving on to the analysis of the policy implications, I …rst show that the results derived
in the baseline model continue to hold in this model as well. Moreover, the derivations made
in this section will also be useful to understand the policy implications better. For the proofs
as well as the formalization of the results mentioned but not formalized in this section, see
Online Appendix B.
    To begin with, in the online appendix I show that Lemmas 2 and 3 from the baseline model
continue to hold, with the exception that c in (1) in Lemma 2 is replaced with (11). Note that
as a result, as in the baseline model, the activist keeps his stake if and only if he exerts e¤ort
and is not hit with a liquidity shock.
    Importantly, as I formalize in the proposition below, I show that all of the other results
from the baseline model (Propositions 1 and 2 and Corollary 1) continue to hold as well, with
the exception that it no longer speci…es the closed form solutions for P ; and for when q < q.

Proposition 3 For any q 2 [0; 1), an equilibrium      always exists and it is unique. Moreover,
  is continuous in q, and there exists q 2 (0; 1) such that in equilibrium:

  (i)    2 (0; 1) if q = 0,   strictly increases with q if if q < q, and     = 1 if q    q.

 (ii) V (q) is strictly increasing in q if q < q, attains its unique maximum at q = q, and is
      strictly decreasing in q if q > q.

   Moreover, q strictly increases with c and     L , and V   (q) strictly increases as   L decreases.


    Notably, among other things, this proposition states that the key result from the baseline
model continues to hold: As the probability that the implemented intervention is bad increases
(i.e., as q increases), the activist that is implementing a good intervention exerts e¤ort with
higher likelihood (i.e.,    increases), and moreover, the average …rm value V increases since
the latter e¤ect dominates. The intuition behind this result is similar to the baseline model,
with more subtlety involved. In particular, to understand this result, let us …rst derive the
payo¤s of the activist from shirking and from exerting e¤ort.
    To that end, note that the activist pays [Q0 + (1        )V ] to buy his stake if he intends
to intervene. To see why, note that when accumulating shares, he …rst buys a stake of 0


                                                22
without the need to do any disclosure. Since the market is perfectly liquid, the market maker
cannot make any inference about this trade in the absence of disclosure. Therefore, the activist
pays Q0 per share, where Q0 is the value of the …rm in status quo (i.e., if no intervention is
implemented).19 On the other hand, once the activist buys a share of 0 , he has to make
a disclosure. In particular, he has to disclose this stake and that he intends to intervene.20
Therefore, the market maker correctly updates the expected value of the …rm to Q0 + V ,
where V is the expected NPV conditional on the implementation of the intervention. For
this reason, the activist pays (         0 ) (Q0 + V ) to buy the remaining shares. Combining,
the activist pays 0 Q0 + (         0 ) (Q0 + V ) to buy his total stake of      . Since = 0 = by
de…nition of , an easier way to express this payment is [Q0 + (1              )V ]. Note that a lower
  represents a stricter disclosure threshold when buying the shares (note that a related result
that will be useful in the later sections is that using the same arguments, an activist that does
not intend to intervene pays Q0 to buy his stake, because his disclosure will include his intent
and hence prompt the market maker to keep the share price at Q0 ).
    Next, after intervening, if the activist exits (i.e., sell his stake before the NPV is revealed),
then he sells his stake for [Q0 + V + (1               ) P ]. The reason is that when selling, the
activist can sell a stake of 1 without disclosing it. Since the market maker cannot infer this
trade, the share price remains at Q0 + V during this time. However, then the activist has to
disclose that he has sold a stake of 1 , and hence the market maker updates the stock price to
Q0 + P , where P is the expected NPV conditional on the activist’s exit. Overall, the activist
collects a total of 1 (Q0 + V ) + (          1 )(Q0 + P ) for the sale. Since    = 1 = by de…nition
of , these proceeds can also be expressed as [Q0 + V + (1                  ) P ]. Again, note that a
lower represents a tighter disclosure when selling.
    Combining the calculations above, the net pro…t of the activist from buying a stake ,
implementing a good intervention, shirking, and then exiting is given by

                       exit      = (1        s) [   V + (1      )P      (1      )V ]      ;                 (14)

where is the cost of implementing a good intervention, and exit is the activist’s pro…t on his
stake when he exits. Therefore, (14) is the net pro…t of the activist with a good intervention
  19
     Note that here, to avoid complicating the analysis further, I ignore the market maker’s calculation that an
activist might be buying a stake in this …rm, which will be negligible for example if there are too few activists
compared to the total number of …rms. Nevertheless, I incorporate this aspect to the model in an unreported
analysis and show that all results throughout Section 3 (including the policy implications) continue to hold
even if the measure of activists is large.
  20
     As mentioned in Section 3.1, this assumption is in parallel with the 13D …ling requirements.


                                                       23
from shirking, since he always exits as noted earlier.
    On the other hand, the net pro…t of the activist from buying a stake , implementing a
good intervention, exerting e¤ort, and then keeping his stake until the NPV is revealed (unless
hit by a liquidity shock) is given by

                           exit + (1        ) f(1       l) [    H      (1       )V ] + bg            c;                      (15)

because with probability , he gets hit with a liquidity shock and has to exit, and with proba-
bility 1     , he is able to keep his stake (in which case he is subject to the long-term tax rate
  l ). Therefore, the whole expression given by (15) is the net pro…t of the activist with a good
intervention from exerting e¤ort, because also as noted earlier, he keeps his stake unless hit by
a liquidity shock.
      Note that the value-creating activist (i.e., the activist that is implementing a good inter-
vention) exerts with some probability due to the assumption c < c. Therefore, if he is not
always exerting e¤ort (i.e.     < 1), he must be indi¤erent between exerting e¤ort and shirking.
In turn, this implies that (14) and (15) must be equal, which implies that

 (1        s) [   V + (1      )P       (1      )V ] = (1             l) [   H   (1        )V ] + b        c= [ (1          )] (16)

or equivalently,

      (1      s) [   V + (1     )P ] + ( s          l ) (1          )V = (1          l)   H +b   c= [ (1            )] :     (17)

Importantly, in equilibrium, the LHS in (17) is strictly decreasing in q given , and is strictly
increasing in given q.21 Therefore, this equation yields two critical results, as also formalized
in Proposition 3: First, it yields that     strictly increases in q if  < 1, that is, the value-
creating activist (i.e., the activist that implements a good intervention) exerts e¤ort with
a higher probability as the likelihood of a bad intervention increases. Intuitively, as in the
baseline model, as q increases for a given , exiting becomes less attractive for value-creating
activist. This induces him to keep his stake, and in turn, to exert e¤ort.
    Second, equation (17) also yields the main result, that is, the average …rm value V (q)
strictly increases with q if   < 1 (i.e., whenever the moral hazard problem is binding). Im-
portantly, noting that the LHS of (17) is just a weighted sum of V and P , this result follows
due to the exact same insight from the baseline model: The impact of higher e¤ort has more
 21
      I formally show this result in the proof of Proposition 3.


                                                               24
positive impact on the unconditional average value of the …rm V compared to the stock price
conditional on the exit of the activist, P . Therefore, as q increases and increases as a result,
for the LHS of (17) to stay constant, it must be that V (q) is strictly increasing and P (q) is
strictly decreasing.
    A more intuitive way to understand the importance of the insight mentioned above and
its connection to the main result is by setting s = l . Then, as also re‡ected in (16), as
q increases, V + (1          ) P has to stay constant for the value-creating activist to remain
indi¤erent between exerting e¤ort and shirking. This is because V + (1              ) P represents
the average price at which the activist can sell his stake at (before the NPV is revealed), and if
this price is any higher (lower), then it incentivizes the value-creating activist to always shirk
and exit (exert e¤ort and keep his stake unless hit by a liquidity shock), pushing the price
back down (up). In turn, the insight mentioned above again implies that V (q) has to strictly
increase with q for V (q) + (1       ) P (q) to stay constant. Note that an increase in V (q) also
increases the cost basis of the activist, that is, the amount he needs to pay to acquire the
stake. Therefore, when s > l , the increase in V (q) w.r.t. q is dampened, since the increase
in the activist’s cost basis decreases his incentives to keep his stake (because it reduces the tax
savings he can have from keep his stake and achieving the long-term tax rate l ). However,
this latter e¤ect cannot completely reverse the increase of V (q) w.r.t. q, because the whole
reason this e¤ect exits is the increase in V (q). As a result, V (q) strictly increases with q
whenever < 1.
    As also stated in Proposition 3, since also increases in q (as established earlier), it follows
that there exists a q 2 (0; 1) such that       = 1 if and only if q      q. Since increasing q any
further cannot have any bene…t on the …rm value, V attains its maximum at q = q, just like
in the baseline model. Moreover, again as in the baseline model, the range of q for which V (q)
increases in q expands with the severity of the moral hazard problem (that is, the set [0; q)
strictly expands in c).


3.3    Policy Implications
In this section, I study the policy implications of the model (implications of liquidity are
analyzed later, in Section 3.4, since they utilize the formal results in Section 3.3). In particular,
the model allows me to analyze several policies, which can be broadly categorized under four
distinct groups as outlined below. Some of these policies are voluntarily adopted by …rms,
some of them are determined by regulations, and some overlap. For example, the SEC’s formal


                                                 25
proposal in 2022 would reduce and and increase .22 Indeed, these policies have been in
the SEC’s agenda for a long time, with the intention to …ght activist short-termism.23 Before
the SEC formally proposed them in 2022, a number of senators including Bernie Sanders and
Elizabeth Warren introduced them in 2016 in a bipartisan legislation called Brokaw Act, which
would “…ght against increasing short-termism in our economy by promoting transparency and
strengthening oversight of activist hedge funds.”24
    I categorize the policies as follows.
(A) Policies that punish short-termism by making activists’exit more di¢ cult, which hurt the
activist if he exits before the NPV is revealed: increasing short-term taxes s , or tightening the
disclosure rule for selling.
(B) Policies that reward long-termism, which bene…t the activist if he keeps his stake until the
NPV is revealed: reducing long-term taxes l , or giving additional perks b for holding the stake
long-term (such as a higher dividend rate, more voting power, or proxy access).
(C) Policies that act as blanket punishments, which hurt the activist regardless of whether he
exits or not: The policies include tightening the disclosure rule for buying, or raising the …rm’s
defenses against the activist, which would make it more di¢ cult for the activist to intervene
and hence increase . For the latter, examples that impact include staggered boards, super
majority voting requirements, restrictions on shareholders’ability to call special meetings, and
dual class share structures. Alternatively, can also be increased by regulation (e.g., by the
SEC’s proposal mentioned above).
(D) Policies that make it more di¢ cult to implement value-destroying interventions: increasing
    (for example, by increasing liability or accountability).
  22
     Speci…cally, in addition to proposing (i ) reducing the …ling window for 13D amendments to one business
day (which would reduce ), the SEC also proposed (ii ) reducing the time window for activists’ initial 13D
…ling (which is the public …ling activists have to make once they cross the 5% ownership threshold) from ten
to …ve business days (which would reduce ), as well as (iii ) broadening the de…nition of who collaborate with
activists. The latter would not only make such collaborations more expensive (increasing ), but also make
a 13D disclosure more likely even if the activist himself does not exceed the 5% threshold. See Bloomberg,
“The SEC Wants to Stop Activism,” 3/24/2022; WSJ, “SEC Proposes Giving Activist Investors Less Time to
Report Positions,”2/10/2022; and HLS Forum on Corp. Governance and Financial Regulation, “SEC Proposes
Updates to Schedule 13D/G Reporting,” 2/15/2022.
  23
     In 2015, the SEC Commissioner Daniel Gallagher conveyed that the “most obvious issue” the SEC faced
in terms of its role to combat activist short-termism was “Section 13 reporting obligations.” (see sec.gov,
“Activism, Short-Termism, and the SEC,” 06/23/2015)
  24
     See baldwin.state.gov, “U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin Introduces Bipartisan Legislation to Strengthen
Oversight of Predatory Hedge Funds,” 8/31/2017, and davispolk.com, “Legislation Introduced to Increase
Activist Hedge Fund Disclosure,” 3/24/2016.


                                                     26
3.3.1   Exogenous q or

The proposition below formalizes the policy implications, holding q constant (i.e., for a given
probability that the intervention implemented by the activist is bad). Note that this includes
the special case q = 0, i.e., the case where the adverse selection channel is shut down. Also note
that while the condition exit > 0 is imposed in this proposition, as I show in the next section,
this condition is always satis…ed in equilibrium where entry of the activists is endogenized
(because otherwise some activists make a loss in equilibrium).

Proposition 4 Consider any q < 1, and suppose that the equilibrium satis…es exit > 0, where
 exit is given by (14). Then, for any given q < 1,   and V weakly (strictly) increase in s
and b and weakly (strictly) decrease in l and (if q < q).

    The proposition above shows that for a given q, policies that punish short-termism (i.e.,
policies that make the activist’s exit more di¢ cult) as well as policies that reward long-termism
increase …rm value, because both of these changes incentivize the activist with a good inter-
vention to exert e¤ort. This result is intuitive, because both of them incentivize the activist
with a good intervention to keep his stake, and in turn, to exert e¤ort.
    Next, I hold (i.e., the probability that the activist with good intervention is exerting
e¤ort) constant and endogenize q. Note that this includes the special case = 0, i.e., the case
where the moral hazard channel is shut down. As I show in the proposition below, I …nd that
policies that punish short-termism increase …rm value, because they decrease the pro…t that
an activist with bad intervention can make from intervention, and thus discourage him from
intervening. Similarly, policies that reward long-termism increase …rm value as well, because
they incentivize activists with bad interventions to switch from intervening and exiting to not
intervening and keeping their stake, so that they can enjoy the bene…ts of keeping their stake.

Proposition 5 Consider any        2 [0; 1], and …x it. Suppose that the equilibrium satis…es
  exit > 0 and q > 0. Then, q strictly decreases in s and b, strictly increases in , and weakly
increases in l . Therefore, V strictly increases in s and b, strictly decreases in , and weakly
decreases in l .

    However, as we will see in the next section, these policies can have completely opposite
implications for the value created in the economy when both moral hazard and adverse selec-
tion are taken into account simultaneously, despite the additional incentive provided by these
policies for the value-creating activists to exert e¤ort.

                                               27
3.3.2      Endogenous q and

In this section, to better study policy implications, I simultaneously endogenize the activists’
e¤ort and entry, and hence, and q. Here, I use the term “entry” to refer to an activist’s
purchase of a stake in a …rm and implementation of the intervention. Endogenizing the adverse
selection aspect in addition to moral hazard is important because as also explained in the
introduction, many regulations and policies aimed at mitigating short-termism intend to do so
by curtailing activists’value destruction.
    Indeed, I show in this section that under endogenous entry, many kinds of policies can
destroy total …rm value, including policies that punish short-termism as well as policies that
reward long-termism, even if the number of activists implementing good interventions does
not change. Nevertheless, I also …nd that compared to all other policies I study, policies that
reward long-termism is the least likely to destroy total …rm value. However, the e¤ect on …rm
value signi…cantly varies even across the policies that reward long-termism.
    Recall that there are multiple …rms and multiple activists, and each activist is matched to a
di¤erent …rm at the beginning of the game. After observing the quality of their interventions,
each activist decides whether to acquire a stake in his matched …rm and whether to intervene
(while is exogenous here, I relax this assumption in Section 4.5). I denote the total measure
of activists with good (bad) interventions by G ( B ), and the measure of activists with good
(bad) interventions that implement their interventions by G ( B ). Note that q = +B by
                                                                                         G   B
de…nition of q.
    I start the analysis by showing a preliminary result. In particular, as described in the
following lemma, there exits a threshold such that if the activist’s cost of implementing a
good intervention is higher than this threshold then no activist intervenes, and if < then
all activists with good interventions implement their interventions. This is because the pro…t
of the value-destroying activist from entering is lower than that of the value-creating activist.25

Lemma 4 There exists a unique threshold                such that

  (i) If    > , then no activist intervenes (i.e.,          B =    G = 0).
  25
     In turn, this is because the cost +        of implementing a bad intervention is higher than the cost of
implementing a good intervention, as explained in Section 3.1. However,          > 0 is not a necessary condition
for the results, but rather a su¢ cient condition to ensure unique equilibrium. Indeed, if    = 0, then whenever
there is an equilibrium where a positive measure of activists intervene, any G 2 (0; G ] is an equilibrium,
because all of the value-creating activists break even by entering.




                                                       28
 (ii) If < , then all of the activists with good interventions implement their interventions
      (i.e., G = G ).26
       Moreover, there exists b > 0 such that 0 <             if b < b and     >1      max f ;      M=    H g.


    Due to Lemma 4, I assume < in the remainder of the analysis.27 Therefore, all of the
value-creating activists intervene.
    In order to …nd the equilibrium measure of value-destroying activists that intervene, we
need to compare their payo¤ from doing so to their outside option. If b = 0, the activist’s
outside option is zero, since there is no way he can get a positive payo¤ without intervening.
However, if b > 0, then he gets an expected payo¤ of (1       )b by buying a stake in his matched
…rm, not intervening, and then keeping his stake unless hit by a liquidity shock. This is because
as explained after Proposition 3 in Section 3.2, if the activist does not intend to intervene, he
pays Q0 for his stake. Since the market observes that the activist does not intervene, the
value of his stake remains at Q0 . However, if the activist keeps his stake (which he can do
with probability 1      ), he gets an additional payo¤ of b per share, giving him an expected
payo¤ of (1       )b.
    Next, note that the payo¤ of the value-destroying activist that buys a stake and intervenes
is
            exit  ( +      ) = (1      s ) [ V + (1    )P      (1    )V ] ( +        ),      (18)

because he always exits, where exit is the activist’s pro…t on his stake when he exits, and
  +      is the cost of implementing a bad intervention.28 Note that a value-destroying activist
can make pro…t by intervening because he can sell his stake before the NPV is revealed. In
particular, he strictly prefers to buy a stake and intervene if (18) is strictly larger than (1 )b,
he is indi¤erent if they are equal, and he strictly prefers not to intervene otherwise. However, as
more activists implement bad interventions and q increases as a result, the market incorporates
this expectation into the stock price P conditional on the activist’s exit, thereby driving
down the pro…t exit of these activists (in other words, V (q) + (1             ) P (q) (1      )V (q)
decreases as q increases). Therefore, the measure B of value-destroying activists that intervene
is determined such that the net pro…t of the activist from doing so is (1                )b. The next
  26
     Note that if < , depending on the o¤-equilibrium-path beliefs, the equilibrium where no activist inter-
venes may exist as well. However, whenever an equilibrium where a positive measure of activists intervene, I
select that equilibrium.
  27
     That said, I do not impose the condition described at the end of Proposition 4, which is a su¢ cient condition
for < but not necessary.
  28
     For the details of the derivation of the payo¤ (18), see the derivation of (14) in Section 3.2.


                                                        29
proposition formalizes this result.

Proposition 6          exit (q) is strictly decreasing with q if    0. Therefore, the equilibrium
                                                                       exit (q)
is unique, and if       B > (
                              H
                               L
                                 ) G , then B < B and the equilibrium is given by
               (
                   0;                                                                 if +             ;
         q =                                                                                                  (19)
                   q 2 (0; 1) such that   exit (q)     ( +          ) = (1        )b; otherwise.

       Note that in equilibrium q pins down           B and vice versa, because q          =     B
                                                                                                      and   G =   G.
                                                                                               G+ B
The condition B > ( L ) G means that the measure of activists with bad interventions is
                              H


su¢ ciently high compared to those with good interventions, re‡ecting the idea that good ideas
are scarce and bad ideas are abundant. I will keep this assumption throughout the rest of the
section to simplify the analysis.29

Policy implications

Now that the equilibrium q is characterized, we can turn our attention to study the policy
implications. To that end, the proposition below characterizes the comparative statics of q
and V , and the resulting impact on the total …rm value ( B + G )V (that is, the combined
value of all …rms, where Q0 is ignored because it is a constant).30

Proposition 7 There exits            such that        <      and:

  (i) If +       > ; then q = 0. Moreover, V and ( B + G )V do not change in and                                   ,
      strictly increase in s and b, weakly increase in , and strictly decrease in l and .

 (ii) If     +       2 ( ; ), then q 2 (0; q), and:

          (a) q strictly decreases in ,          ,    s , and strictly increases in        and .
          (b) V strictly decreases in ,              , and     l , strictly increases in       and b, and does not
              change in s and .
  29
      If B     ( HL ) G , then in equilibrium, all of the activists with bad interventions might implement their
interventions (i.e., B = B ). However, this is not an interesting case, because then B (and hence q ) does
not respond to policies, and a main goal of this section is to study the e¤ects of policies on endogenous q .
   30
      In particular, the full expression for total …rm value is F Q0 + ( B + G )V , where F is the measure of
all …rms, Q0 is the value of a …rm if no intervention is implemented in that …rm, and V is the expected NPV
of the intervention conditional on implementation of the intervention.



                                                          30
       (c) ( B +   G )V   strictly decreases in ,     ,    s , and   l , and strictly increases in   and
            .

(iii) If +   < , then q > q, and q strictly decreases in ,    , s , and b, strictly increases
      in and , and does not change in l . Moreover, V and ( B + G )V strictly increase
      in ,  , s ; and b; strictly decrease in and , and do not change in l .


The region where q = 0 (there is no adverse selection, but moral hazard is binding): This
region corresponds to part (i), where +         is so high that none of the activists that have bad
interventions implements it (i.e., B = 0 and hence q = 0). Then, policies that punish short-
termism (i.e., raise s or decrease ) as well as policies that reward long-termism (i.e., reduce l
or increase b) strictly increase the expected NPV V of an implemented intervention, because
it incentivizes the value-creating activist to keep his stake, and in turn, internalize his impact
on the …rm and exert more e¤ort (i.e., increase ) in the …rst place. This is not a surprising
result, since we have already seen in the previous section that keeping q constant, these policies
increase V . Since the number of value-creating activists remain the same ( G = G ), this also
implies that the total …rm value ( B + G )V increases as well.

The region where q 2 (0; q) (there is adverse selection, and moral hazard is binding): The
impact of the policies above are very di¤erent in the region that corresponds to part (ii),
where +        is in the intermediate region such that some value-destroying activists intervene
but not too many, so that not all of the value-creating activist exert e¤ort (i.e., B is such
that q 2 (0; q) and hence        < 1). To begin with policies that punish short-termism (i.e.,
raise s or decrease ), they always hurt total …rm value ( B + G )V in this region, even
though the measure of value creating activists that intervene remains at G = G . This is
because these policies strictly reduce B while not increasing V . Here, it is straightforward to
understand the former e¤ect: B strictly decreases because the pro…t of the value-destroying
activist from his stake decreases. However, the surprising result is that V does not change.
To see why, note that combining the value-destroying activist’s entry indi¤erence equation
  exit  ( +      ) = (1        )b from (19) with (18) and the value-creating activist’s e¤ort
indi¤erence equation (16) immediately yields

                     +      = (1      l) [   H   (1       )V ] +     b   c=(1     );                 (20)

which shows the comparative statics of V to any parameter in this region very clearly, including

                                                 31
that V does not change in s or . Speci…cally, (20) shows that in the determination of V ,
the pro…t exit that the activist makes on his stake by exiting does not play a role (due to the
combination of the two indi¤erence equations as mentioned above). As a result, neither s nor
   shows up in (20), and hence does not impact V .
    Intuitively, punishing short-termism discourages value-destroying activists from intervening,
driving B (and hence q ) down. This has such a negative impact on the incentives of value-
creating activists to exert e¤ort that it dominates even though (i) now fewer value-destroying
activists intervene (which was also present in the baseline model) and (ii) these policies provide
direct incentives to exert e¤ort (which was not present in the baseline model). Therefore, the
total …rm value ( B + G )V decreases, even though G remaining constant (i.e., G = G ).
    Moreover, the reason why more value-creating activists choose to shirk is because more
of them choose to exit (instead of keeping their stake and internalizing their impact on the
…rm value). In other words, while trying to mitigate short-termism, these policies might turn
so many value-creating activists into short-termist activists (despite the additional incentive
provided by these policies to keep their stake longer) that it can result in value destruction,
even though value-destroying short-termist activists are driven out.
    Due to the same reasons, blanket punishment policies (i.e., raising or reducing ) as
well as policies that make it more di¢ cult to implement value-destroying interventions (i.e.,
increasing      ) also destroy total …rm value. Importantly, note that these policies (including
punishing short-termism) destroy value in the entire region where q > 0 and          < 1, that is,
whenever there is adverse selection and the moral hazard problem is binding. More generally,
these results show that under short-termism, there is a tension between improving governance
forcefully through policies versus endogenously through market forces. As it was just shown,
the former can suppress the latter too much, making overall governance worse.
    Moreover, even policies that reward long-termism can result in value destruction in this
region. Speci…cally, increasing b (i.e., giving the activists more perks for holding their stakes
longer) can have such an e¤ect. The reason is that even though (20) implies that V increases
with b, at the same time B (and hence q ) can strictly decrease with b. This is because
increasing b makes the outside option more attractive for the value-destroying activist, which
is not intervening and instead keeping his stake unless hit by a liquidity shock (so that he
can enjoy an expected payo¤ of (1          )b as explained after Lemma 4 above). The resulting
decrease in q can disincentivize the value-creating activist so much that the total …rm value
can decrease.31 Nevertheless, increasing b can also increase total …rm value, so its e¤ect can
 31
      A numerical example that yields this result is   H = 100,   M = 1,   L =   1,   G = 1,   = 0:01,   = 0:1,


                                                       32
go either way. That said, I show in Section 4.6 that under an alternative modeling of b that
is more accurate for proxy access, increasing b destroys total …rm value in the entire region of
q > 0 and < 1, just like the other policies above.
    On the other hand, I …nd that reducing long-term capital gains tax rate l always strictly
increases total …rm value in this region, in contrast to all of the other policies I study. This
is because l does not have a direct impact on the value-destroying activists’ payo¤ from
intervening (because then they always exit before the NPV is revealed), and it also does not
impact the activist’s payo¤ of (1        )b from his outside option. In contrast, reducing l
directly motivates the value-creating activist to keep his stake, and in turn, to exert e¤ort. As
a result, total value increases.32 Moreover, since total …rm value increases under lower long-
term tax rate, this can even result in a higher amount of total taxes collected, so it may not
create an issue for keeping a balanced budget. That said, we will see that in the next region
below, reducing l does not improve total …rm value but increasing b does.

The region where q > q (there is adverse selection, but moral hazard is not binding): This
region corresponds to part (iii) of Proposition 7. To begin with, in this region total …rm value
does not change with l , because all of the value-creating activists are already exerting e¤ort
(i.e.,   = 1), and l does not directly impact the incentives of the value-destroying activists
as explained above. In contrast, increasing b strictly increases total …rm value, because it
motivates the value-destroying activists switch from intervening and exiting to not intervening
and keeping their stake to enjoy these perks b. In contrast to the previous region, reducing
  B is bene…cial in this region, because it is too high (because the marginal value-destroying
activist has no impact on        since    = 1, that is, the moral hazard problem is not binding).
Similarly, in this region all other policies increase total …rm value as well, because they decrease
the pro…t of the value-creating activists from intervening, and hence drive their number down.
    Combining all three regions above, the corollary below summarizes some of the important
policy implications.

Corollary 2 (i) Policies that punish short-termism, act as blanket punishments, or make
    it more di¢ cult to implement a value-destroying intervention destroy total …rm value
c = 6:5, s = 0:3, l = 0:2, = 0:1, = 0:83, = 0:18,                 = 0:01. Indeed, in this numerical example, the
total …rm value strictly decreases w.r.t. b if b 0:2.
  32
     If higher b represents a higher dividend rate, then b may increase as l decreases. Then, it may be possible
that total …rm value decreases as l decreases. However, as already mentioned, increasing b sometimes increases
total …rm value in this region as well. Therefore, this still would not change the overall result that among all
the policies I study, reducing l is the least likely to destroy total …rm value.


                                                      33
        whenever there is adverse selection (i.e., B > 0) and moral hazard is binding (i.e.,
          < 1), even though they only decrease B and not G .

 (ii) Compared to any policy in part (i), any policy that rewards long-termism is less likely to
      destroy total …rm value, and moreover, increasing b is a dominating policy (i.e., whenever
      any policy in part (i) increases total …rm value, increasing b increases total …rm value as
      well).

(iii) However, increasing b does not dominate reducing l or vice versa. That said, reducing
       l is even less likely to destroy total …rm value. Speci…cally:


         (a) If    B = 0, then increasing b and reducing   l both increase total …rm value.

         (b) If B is positive but not too high (i.e., B =( B + G ) 2 (0; q)), then reducing        l
             increases total …rm value, while the e¤ect of increasing b is ambiguous.
         (c) If B is too high (i.e., B =( B + G ) > q), then reducing l has no impact on total
             …rm value, while increasing b strictly increases total …rm value.

   Therefore, even among the policies that reward long-termism, the choice must be made
carefully to avoid harming …rm value inadvertently and to ensure increasing it.


3.4       Implications of Liquidity
Note that at the entry stage in the model, the activist decides whether to buy a stake or not,
and if he buys, then at the exit stage, he decides whether to keep his stake or sell it. Recall that
in the previous section, parameter ( ) represents the looseness of the disclosure threshold
at the entry (exit) stage. Importantly, since higher ( ) represents a higher ability of the
activist to camou‡age his trade at the entry (exit) stage, it can also be interpreted as the
liquidity at the entry (exit) stage. In fact, as I show in Online Appendix E, it is also possible
to interpret higher ( ) more directly as a measure of higher noise trading at the entry (exit)
stage, without any change in the formal model. Indeed, the point that a tighter disclosure
requirement is akin to a reduction in noise trading is previously made in the literature.33
    Let us analyze implications of liquidity at the exit stage, starting with exogenous q or
(Section 3.3.1). In particular, Proposition 4 implies that V strictly decreases in . Intuitively,
(a) for a given q, higher liquidity reduces the incentives of the activist to keep his stake, and in
 33
      See, e.g., Section 7 in Back et al. (2018).


                                                    34
turn, to exert e¤ort, and similarly, (b) for a given , higher liquidity increases the pro…t that
the value-destroying activist can make from intervening and then selling his stake, increasing
the number of such value-destroying interventions in equilibrium.
    Next, let us focus on the case of endogenous q and (Section 3.3.2). Recall from part
(ii)(c) of Proposition 7 that increasing strictly increases total …rm value under endogenous
q if q 2 (0; q). This implies that higher liquidity at the exit stage can strictly increase total
…rm value even though the activist never increases his stake as a result but utilizes this higher
liquidity only to sell his shares. The reason is the same with that explained in Section 3.3.2:
As increases, even though V decreases for a given q, in response q increases relatively more,
and hence the dominant e¤ect is the increase in the probability that the value-creating activist
keeps his stake and exerts e¤ort. In other words, as liquidity at the exit stage increases, the
number of value-destroying activists increases so much that the latter dominates and results
in a higher total …rm value due to the higher e¤ort exerted by the value-creating activists.


4     Extensions
In this section, to demonstrate the robustness of the results, I discuss several extensions of the
model.


4.1    The Activist’s E¤ort
Micro-foundation of e¤ort as learning about projects. I begin this section with o¤ering
a micro-foundation for the e¤ort dimension of the model. It was assumed both in the baseline
model and in the main model that the activist exerts e¤ort at the same time as he intervenes.
Here, a simple interpretation is that e¤ort increases the quality of the activist’s intervention
(e.g., better implementation). However, an alternative interpretation is that e¤ort represents
the activist’s search and learning among di¤erent possible projects before deciding which one
to implement. One way to model this micro-foundation is to assume that the activist faces
several projects, where each project has an NPV of H > 0 with some probability and V L < 0
otherwise, where each project has an expected NPV of L 2 ( V L ; 0). The …rm can implement
only one of these projects, or none. With some probability, the activist gets a costless signal,
which helps him to eliminate some of the projects that has NPV of V L such that the expected
NPV of any of the remaining projects is M 2 (0; H ). If he exerts e¤ort (e.g., analyzes these
remaining projects carefully), then he successfully identi…es at least one project that has an


                                               35
NPV of H .34 Moreover, if the joint distribution of the NPVs is symmetric, then conditional
on project implementation, the market maker cannot infer anything about the NPV from
the identity of the project itself, and hence the model would reduce to the original model.
Moreover, the activist can do this search among the projects after or before he purchases his
shares in the …rm.
The ability of the activist with a bad intervention to exert e¤ort. In the original
model, it was assumed that if the activist has a bad intervention, he cannot improve the value
of the intervention by exerting e¤ort. Let us relax this assumption, and suppose that he can
exert e¤ort and increase the value of the intervention from L to H . Then, it is reasonable
to assume that then his cost of e¤ort to do so will be larger than the cost of exerting of e¤ort
when the intervention is good (because the latter improves the NPV of the intervention from
  M to     H , where   H      M >     H      L ). Then, for any q     q, the activist with a bad
intervention would never exert e¤ort. That is because in this region, the activist with a good
intervention is indi¤erent between shirking (and exiting) and exerting e¤ort (and keeping his
stake unless hit with a liquidity shock), and hence, the activist with a bad intervention strictly
prefers to shirk. Therefore, all of the results from the original model would continue to hold
in this region, which is the region that yielded the main results in the paper.
Binary vs. continuous e¤ort. In the model, it was assumed that when deciding whether
to exert e¤ort, the activist with a good intervention faces a binary decision: He either exerts a
given amount of e¤ort c and increases the …rm value by a …xed amount, or he does not exert any
e¤ort at all. Alternatively, the e¤ort could be modeled continuously, where the increase (c)
in the …rm value is a function of how much e¤ort c the activist chooses to exert.35 However, the
results of the paper are completely unchanged in this generalization of the model, because in
equilibrium, the activist again ends up choosing between either exerting no e¤ort vs. exerting
some unique level of e¤ort c . This is because the activist decides his complete strategy at the
point where he decides whether to exert e¤ort: If decides to exert any e¤ort, then he never
exits unless hit by a liquidity shock (because if he weakly prefers exiting over keeping his stake
after exerting any e¤ort, then he would be strictly better o¤ by not exerting any e¤ort and
always exiting, since the NPV is not revealed by the exit stage). Therefore, conditional on
exerting e¤ort, there is a unique e¤ort level c that maximizes his payo¤.
  34
     An easy way to achieve these properties is to assume that the NPV distribution of the projects is such that
there is always the same number of projects with NPVs of H . While this would imply that the distribution
of projects is correlated, it does not prevent the joint distribution from being symmetric.
  35
     Suppose that (c) is concave, as is standard in the literature.



                                                      36
4.2    The sign and magnitude of                L and      M

Relaxing the assumption L < 0 < M to L < M . In the paper, the parametric
restriction L < 0 < M was assumed to make the contrast between the activist with a bad
intervention and the activist with a good intervention stronger (i.e., as the value-destroying
and value-creating activist, respectively). However, due to the same reasons as those provided
in the analysis, the main results of the paper continue to hold in the case of L < M < 0, as
well as in the case of 0 < L < M , as I explain in Appendix F. The only important exception
is that if 0 < L < M , then Proposition 5 (i.e., the policy implications when there is only
adverse selection and no moral hazard) does not hold anymore, because even the activist with a
“bad invervention”creates value due to 0 < L . However, importantly, even if 0 < L < M ,
the policy implications when there are both adverse selection and moral hazard (as described
in Proposition 7) continue to hold, as well as the policy implications when there is only moral
hazard (as described in Proposition 4), as also explained in Appendix F.
Micro-foundation of the assumption L < M . Due to the last extension discussed
above, next I discuss the assumption L < M . In particular, the justi…cation for L < M
can be seen from the generalization of the model made in the second extension in Section
4.1 above, where the activist with a bad intervention is allowed to exert e¤ort as well. As
discussed in Section 4.1, in this generalization, L denotes the NPV if the the activist with
a bad intervention does not exert e¤ort. Since M is the NPV if the activist with a good
intervention does not exert e¤ort, L < M is the appropriate parameterization to distinguish
a bad and a good intervention. In addition, as also discussed in Section 4.1 and further
elaborated in Appendix F, in this generalization the activist with a bad intervention does not
exert e¤ort in the region that yields the paper’s main results, making his e¤ort irrelevant for
the main results.


4.3    Implementation of the intervention

The activist’s ability to implement interventions unilaterally. Note that it was as-
sumed in the original model that the activist can always intervene if he desires to. The
justi…cation behind this assumption is that the expected value of the intervention V is always
positive in equilibrium under endogenous entry, as I show in Lemma 8 in Online Appendix
D.1. This is because if V     0 then the value-destroying activist makes a loss from interven-
ing, hence contradicting with V     0. In turn, V > 0 implies that in equilibrium, even if the


                                              37
activist needs to convince the management of the …rm or gather the support of the sharehold-
ers to implement the intervention, he can do so if the other parties involved are not informed
about the NPV of the intervention.
The management’s information about the intervention. An aspect that is also related
to the previous point is how the results would be impacted if the management of the …rm is
informed about the value of the activist’s intervention (i.e., the management is competent).
When this is the case, the likely scenario is that the management already knows about the
project that is the subject of the intervention and its NPV before the activist arrives at the …rm.
Therefore, if the management is maximizing shareholder value, it would implement the project
when it is good even before the activist arrives, and therefore the activist would never show up
(because the market would perfectly infer that the project is bad since the management did
not implement it in the …rst place). However, it might be that the management prefers to keep
status quo, for example, due to some private bene…ts, and hence is opposed to implementing
the project even if it is good. Then, the management would try to prevent the implementation
of a bad intervention as well as a good intervention, and therefore the management’s attempts
to convince the shareholders that this intervention should not be implemented would not
be heeded by the shareholders.36 As a result, the activist would be able to implement the
intervention with the support of the shareholders, if needed with a proxy …ght (in this case,
  would include the activist’s cost of a proxy …ght). Overall, these arguments imply that the
results in the original model would continue to hold as long as the management is entrenched
or incompetent.


4.4     Allowing for Partial Sale
Note that in the original model, it was assumed that at the exit stage, the activist decides
between selling all of his stake and selling none of it. However, even if this assumption is
relaxed completely and the activist is allowed to sell as much of his stake as he would like, the
equilibrium described in Section 2 continues to exist, as well as the equilibrium described in
Section 3 if the short-term tax rate s is not too high compared to l and the additional perks
b for holding the shares is not too high. The reason is that in these equilibria, (a) in the region
  36
    Note that the management may not be able to produce veri…able evidence that the activist’s intervention
is bad. Moreover, even if the management can come up with such hard evidence, it may not be able to
disclose it to the shareholders because disclosing such information may harm …rm value (e.g., by giving an
informational advantage to the competitors of the …rm) and in turn may result in the breach of …duciary duty
of the management.


                                                    38
q q, the exit price always satis…es P 2 ( M ; H ),37 and hence the activist strictly prefers
to keep all of his stake if he has has implemented a good intervention and exerted e¤ort, and
he strictly prefers to sell all of his stake otherwise, and (b) in the region q 2 (q; 1), the exit
price satis…es P 2 ( L ; H ), and hence the activist strictly prefers to keep all of his stake if
he has implemented a good intervention (in which case he always exerts e¤ort because q > q)
and strictly prefers to sell all of his stake if he has implemented a bad intervention.


4.5       Dynamic Disclosure and the Stake Size
One of the assumptions made in Section 3 was that when the activist is buying (or selling)
shares, he makes disclosure only once. However, in reality, the activist might have to make back
to back disclosures. For example, the current SEC rules require activists to amend their 13D
…ling in two business days, which implies that an activist might have to make such a dynamic
disclosure. Nevertheless, even if the disclosure is modeled in this way, the equilibria described
in Sections 2 and 3 would continue to exist. This is because in these equilibria, the additional
disclosure would reveal no additional information: Once the activist makes his …rst disclosure
when buying (selling) shares, the market fully anticipates that he will continue buying until
amassing a stake of (continue selling until he sells all of stake ).
    Another assumption that was made in Section 3 is that if the activist decides to buy a stake,
the size of the stake he buys is exogenous and constant. Here, can represent the size of the
stake that the activist prefers due to reasons not included in the full model, for example, in
order to have su¢ cient voting power but without making his portfolio too concentrated on this
…rm (for diversi…cation reasons). Moreover, also note that if is endogenized, then the activist
with a bad intervention always prefers to buy the same number of shares that activist with
a good intervention does, because otherwise the market would infer the intervention quality
in equilibrium, making it impossible for the value-destroying activist to make a pro…t on his
stake.
    To demonstrate the robustness of the results to endogenous , suppose that the activist has
alotted a certain capital K to buy shares in this …rm. Then,        decreases with the expected
value V that the activist creates in the …rm, because the activist pays more on average to buy
a stake if V is higher. All else equal, this reduces the incentives of the activist with a good
intervention to exert e¤ort, because c= (i.e., his cost of e¤ort per share he owns) increases.
Since the main driver of the results in the paper is that V (q) increases in q if q < q (due to
 37
      This result is formally shown in the proofs of Propositions 1 and 3.


                                                        39
higher e¤ort of the activist), a particular concern that might arise is whether this result will
not hold anymore under endogenous . However, the reduction in            can never be so much
that V does not increase with q if q < q. This is because if V did not increase with q at
any point q = q 0 < q, then it would mean that the shares don’t become more expensive as
q increases at q = q 0 and hence      would not decrease with q at q = q 0 , in turn yielding a
contradiction with the result that V does not increase with q at q = q 0 .


4.6     Proxy Access
Even though the model in Section 3 assumes that the activist can enjoy the extra bene…t
b per share whenever he keeps his stake longer, in reality some of the policies of this kind
might require in addition that the activist does not intend to in‡uence the …rm. For example,
proxy access has this requirement in some …rms. When this is the case, an activist that has
intervened may not be able to utilize proxy access.38 This has important implications for the
e¤ect of increasing b (e.g., introducing proxy access) on total …rm value. In particular, if some
value-destroying activists are intervening (i.e., q > 0), then as b increases, it has no impact
on the value-creating activist’s incentives to exert e¤ort, because they always strictly prefer to
intervene and hence are ineligible for these bene…ts.39 On the other hand, increasing b strictly
reduces the number of value-destroying activists that are intervening (i.e., B ), because it
incentivizes them to switch to not intervening and keeping their stake so that they can enjoy
these bene…ts b. This implies that q strictly decreases. As a result, in the region where
q 2 (0; q), increasing b results in a decrease in V as well. Therefore, total …rm value strictly
decreases with b in this region. Moreover, in the region where q = 0, increasing b can also
decrease total …rm value, since in that region it can incentivize the value-creating activists to
switch to not intervening in order to enjoy these bene…ts.
    Overall, these arguments imply that proxy access is more likely to destroy …rm value com-
pared to other policies that reward long-termism. More generally, the result of the original
model that policies that reward long-termism is less likely to destroy total …rm value than
  38
     For example, in 2016, the …rst ever attempt to utilize proxy access was denied on the grounds that the
blockholder had …led 13D, which violated the proxy access’ requirement that “the nominating shareholder
acquired the shares in the ordinary course of business and not with the intent to change or in‡uence control
of the Corporation.” The blockholder, GAMCO, decided not to pursue proxy access as a result of this denial.
For details, see, e.g. HLS Forum on Corporate Governance and Financial Regulation, “The Latest on Proxy
Access,” 02/01/2019.
  39
     Speci…cally, the value-creating activists always strictly prefer to intervene in this region (q > 0) because
their payo¤ from doing so is strictly larger than the value-destroying activists’payo¤ from doing so.



                                                       40
all other kinds of policies studied in this paper (including policies that punish short-termism)
continues to hold only if the policy that rewards long-termism does not put a direct restraint
on the activist’s incentives to intervene.


4.7    Career Concerns and the Activist’s “Skill”
While the arguments in the paper abstract from career concerns, it is worthwhile to mention
that the results would not get weaker and would instead get stronger if career concerns were
incorporated in my model as well. First of all, it is important to note the modeling of the
activist in this paper captures more than the skillfulness of the activist. In particular, I
do not make any assumption about the time-series correlation of the quality of an activist’s
intervention. If the quality of the activists’interventions now and in the future are independent,
then incorporating career concerns would have no impact on the activists’incentives, since the
market wouldn’t make any inference from the NPV of the activist’s current intervention about
the NPV of his future interventions (for simplicity, my model consists of a single stage where an
activist intervenes only once, but it could be easily extended to a repeated game setting where
the activist can implement di¤erent interventions over time, and the results would continue
to hold). In contrast, if there is positive correlation between the activist’s interventions over
time (that is, the activist has a level of “skill”), then adding career concerns on top of my
model would make the results of the model stronger. This is because as the probability that
the activist is implementing a bad intervention increases, the incentives of the “skilled”activist
to keep his stake would increase so that he can separate from the “unskilled”activist, in turn
strengthening his incentives to exert e¤ort.
    Moreover, if there is such a skill component, then another implication of the model is that
an activist that has proven his skill over time might start creating less value compared to an
activist that might be unskilled, even if there are no career concerns involved. This is because
as q (i.e., the probability that the activist at a …rm is value-destroying) decreases, the expected
value of the …rm can decrease, as shown in Propositions 2 and 3.


4.8    Choosing Between Activists
The baseline model (Propositions 2 and 3 in particular) also has interesting implications for the
case when the …rm’s shareholders or board of directors are choosing between activists. First,
if the shareholders or the board is facing two di¤erent activists’proposals at the same time, it
might be optimal to follow the proposal by the activist who is more likely to destroy value.

                                                41
    Second, it might be also optimal for the shareholders and the board to be not good at
identifying whether the activist has a positive vs. negative NPV intervention (or alternatively,
whether the activist is skilled vs. unskilled, if there is a skill component). This is because if
they can perfectly distinguish between these activists, then they always prefer the activist that
creates value. However, then the market correctly infers that the probability that the activist
is destroying value is zero, and hence such an activist might create less value compared to an
activist that destroys value with some probability (where this probability is denoted by q in
the model), as again implied by Propositions 2 and 3.


4.9     Implications for Entrepreneurship and Venture Capital
The short-termism problem studied in this paper applies to other kinds of blockholders who
are subject to short-termism, such as venture capitalists or entrepreneurs. For example, it
might take su¢ ciently long time for the e¤ect of a venture capitalist’s intervention in a start-
up to be revealed (e.g., at pharmaceutical or tech start-ups) such that (a) the VC with a bad
intervention might contemplate whether to intervene in the start-up and then sell his stake
(e.g., to a di¤erent investor in a private transaction, or via an IPO)40 before the NPV of his
intervention is revealed, while (b) the VC with a good intervention might decide whether to
shirk and sell his stake before the NPV is revealed, or to exert e¤ort and keep his stake until the
NPV is revealed. Since this is the same setup with the baseline model, all of the implications
of the baseline model continue to hold, including those in Sections 4.7 and Section 4.8 (where,
in the latter case, an entrepreneur is deciding between venture capitalists to ask for …nancing).
    Similarly, the baseline model also applies to an entrepreneur even in the absence of any
venture capitalist involvement, where the entrepreneur’s “intervention”represents any project
that he can implement in his own …rm (since he is a blockholder in his …rm). Here, “exiting”
would correspond to selling his stake (e.g., via or after an IPO) before the NPV of the project is
revealed. Moreover, the interpretation of the “project”can be very broad: Indeed, in the case
of an entrepreneur, the project can even represent the action of starting the …rm itself, where
the revelation of the NPV would be the realization of how pro…table this …rm will be (which
would be revealed after the IPO if the …rm goes public quickly). Therefore, the implications
of the baseline model again hold in the case, as well as those in Sections 4.7 and 4.8 (where,
in the latter case, a venture capitalist is choosing between entrepreneurs to …nance).
  40
    Even though there might be lock-up periods involved for a VC to sell his stake after the IPO, again it can
take a lot of time for the intervention’s NPV to be revealed, and hence the VC might be able to sell his stake
before the NPV is revealed if he wishes to do so.


                                                     42
5    Conclusion
Activist short-termism is a major problem that draws the attention of many policymakers,
academics, and practitioners. An important reason why this short-termism problem arises
is that it takes time for the long-term e¤ects of activist interventions to be realized, giving
activists the opportunity to sell their stake in their targets before the consequences of their
interventions for …rm value are revealed. In particular, two channels through which this short-
termism problem can manifest itself are (i) moral hazard, where the activist can improve the
e¤ect of his intervention on …rm value by exerting hidden e¤ort, and (ii) adverse selection,
where some interventions destroy …rm value rather than creating value.
    In this paper, I study a model of activist short-termism that combines both of these channels
to analyze the implications of liquidity and the policies aimed at …ghting activist short-termism.
I …nd that making the activist’s exit more di¢ cult (e.g., higher short-term capital gains taxes,
tighter disclosure thresholds for selling, or lower liquidity when the activist is deciding whether
to sell his stake or keep it) can increase …rm value if there is only moral hazard or only adverse
selection. However, such changes in policies or liquidity destroy total …rm value when both
moral hazard and adverse selection are present simultaneously, even if they eliminate only
value-destroying interventions and does not change the number of value-creating interventions.
Moreover, even policies that reward long-termism (e.g., reducing long-term capital gains taxes,
or giving activists additional perks for holding their stake long-term such as additional voting
rights or a higher dividend rate) can destroy total …rm value. Nevertheless, among many
di¤erent policies that I compare (including some other proposed policies in addition to those
above), I …nd that policies rewarding long-termism are least likely to result in a lower total …rm
value, even though they may increase the number of value-destroying interventions. Overall,
these results point out that there is a di¤erence between creating value in the economy and
eliminating activists who destroy value. Indeed, as this model shows, when formulating policies,
targeting the latter may contradict with the former.
    The reason behind the implications above is that when the moral hazard problem is binding
(i.e., the activist with a value-creating intervention sometimes shirks and sometimes exerts
e¤ort), average …rm value increases with the probability that the activist is implementing a
value-destroying intervention, because it results in a signi…cantly higher probability of e¤ort
by the value-creating activist, and this e¤ect dominates. Beyond shareholder activism, this
result implies the optimality of value destruction in other settings that involve short-termism,
such as entrepreneurship and venture capital. Therefore, a possible path for future research is


                                                43
to model the other kinds of blockholders in more detail to do policy comparisons for them as
well.




                                            44
References
 [1] Admati, Anat R., and Paul P‡eiderer, 2009, The “Wall Street Walk” and shareholder
     activism: exit as a form of voice, The Review of Financial Studies 22, 2245-2285.
 [2] Admati, Anat R., Paul P‡eiderer, and Josef Zechner, 1994, Large shareholder activism
     and …nancial market equilibrium, Journal of Political Economy 102, 1097-1130.
 [3] Aghion, Philippe, Patrick Bolton, and Jean Tirole, 2004, Exit Options in Corporate Fi-
     nance: Liquidity versus Incentives, Review of Finance 8, 327-53.
 [4] Back, Kerry, Pierre Collin-Dufresne, Tao Li, and Alexander Ljungqvist, 2018, Activism,
     strategic trading, and liquidity, Econometrica 86, 1431-1463.
 [5] Baker, Andrew, 2021, The e¤ects of hedge fund activism, Working paper.
 [6] Bhide, Amar, 1993. The hidden costs of stock market liquidity, Journal of Financial
     Economics 34, 31–51.
 [7] Bolton, Patrick, Jose Scheinkman, and Wei Xiong, 2006, Executive compensation and
     short-termist behaviour in speculative markets, The Review of Economic Studies 73, 577–
     610.
 [8] Bolton, Patrick, and E. Ludwig von Thadden, 1998, Blocks, liquidity, and corporate
     control, Journal of Finance 53, 1-25.
 [9] Brav, Alon, Wei Jiang, and Hyunseob Kim, 2009, Hedge Fund Activism: A Review,
     Foundations and Trends in Finance 4, 185-246.
[10] Brav, Alon, Wei Jiang, and Hyunseob Kim, 2015, Recent Advances in Research on Hedge
     Fund Activism: Value Creation and Identi…cation, Annual Review of Financial Economics
     7.
[11] Brav, Alon, Wei Jiang, and Rongchen Li, 2022, Governance by Persuasion: Hedge Fund
     Activism and Market-based Shareholder In‡uence, Oxford Research Encyclopedia of Eco-
     nomics and Finance.
[12] Burkart, M., D. Gromb, and F. Panunzi, 1997, Large Shareholders, Monitoring and the
     Value of the Firm, Quarterly Journal of Economics 112, 693-728.
[13] Co¤ee, John C., 1991, Liquidity versus control: the institutional investor as corporate
     monitor, Columbia Law Review 91, 1277–1368.
[14] Co¤ee, John C., and Darius Palia, 2016, The wolf at the door: The impact of hedge fund
     activism on corporate governance, Journal of Corporation Law 41, 545-608.
[15] Cohn, Jonathan B., and Uday Rajan, 2013, Optimal corporate governance in the presence
     of an activist investor, Review of Financial Studies 26, 985-1020.
[16] Corum, Adrian Aycan, Activist Settlements, 2023, Working paper.
[17] Corum, Adrian Aycan, and Doron Levit, 2019, Corporate control activism, Journal of
     Financial Economics 133, 1-17.

                                            45
[18] Cremers, Martijn, Saura Masconale, and Simone M. Sepe, 2017, Activist Hedge Funds
     and the Corporation, Washington University Law Review 94, 261-339.
[19] Cvijanovic, Dragana, Amil Dasgupta, and Konstantinos E. Zachariadis, 2022, The Wall
     Street Stampede: Exit As Governance with Interacting Blockholders, Journal of Financial
     Economics, forthcoming.
[20] Dasgupta, Amil and Giorgia Piacentino, 2015, The Wall Street Walk When Blockholders
     Compete For Flows, Journal of Finance 70 (6), 2853-2896.
[21] deHaan, E., Larcker, D., McClure, C., 2019. Long-term economic consequences of hedge
     fund activist interventions. Review of Accounting Studies 24, 536-569.
[22] Donaldson, Jason, Nadya Malenko, and Giorgia Piacentino, 2020, Deadlock on the board,
     The Review of Financial Studies 33, 4445-4488.
[23] Edmans, Alex, 2009, Blockholder trading, market e¢ ciency, and managerial myopia, Jour-
     nal of Finance 64, 2481-513.
[24] Edmans, Alex, 2014, Blockholders and corporate governance, Annual Review of Financial
     Economics 6, 23-50.
[25] Edmans, Alex, Doron Levit, and Devin Reilly, 2019, Governance under common owner-
     ship, Review of Financial Studies 32, 2673-2719.
[26] Edmans, Alex, and Cli¤ord G. Holderness, 2017, Blockholders: A survey of theory and
     evidence in Handbook of corporate governance, ed. Benjamin Hermalin and Michael Weis-
     bach (New York: Elsevier/North-Holland).
[27] Edmans, Alex, and Gustavo Manso, 2011, Governance Through Trading and Intervention:
     A Theory of Multiple Blockholders, Review of Financial Studies 24, 2395-2428.
[28] Faure-Grimaud, A., and D. Gromb, 2004, Public Trading and Private Incentives, Review
     of Financial Studies 17, 985-1014.
[29] Fos, Vyacheslav, and Charles Kahn, 2019, Governance through threats of intervention and
     exit, Working Paper.
[30] Goldman Eitan, and Gunther Strobl, 2013, Large shareholder trading and the complexity
     of corporate investments, Journal of Financial Intermediation 22, 106-122.
[31] Hackbarth, Dirk, Alejandro Rivera, and Tak-Yuen Wong, 2018, Optimal short-termism,
     Working paper.
[32] Kahn, C., and A. Winton, 1998, Ownership Structure, Speculation, and Shareholder In-
     tervention, Journal of Finance, 53, 99-129.
[33] Khanna, Naveen, and Richmond D. Mathews, 2012, Doing Battle With Short Sellers:
     The Con‡icted Role of Blockholders in Bear Raids, Journal of Financial Economics 106,
     229–46.


                                            46
[34] Kyle, Albert S., and Jean-Luc Vila, 1991, Noise trading and takeovers, Rand Journal of
     Economics 22, 54-71.
[35] Laux, Volker, 2012, Stock option vesting conditions, CEO turnover, and myopic invest-
     ment, Journal of Financial Economics 106, 513-526.
[36] Levit, Doron, 2019, Soft shareholder activism, Review of Financial Studies 32, 2775-2808.
[37] Marinovic, Ivan, and Felipe Varas, 2024, Strategic Trading and Blockholder Dynamics,
     RAND Journal of Economics, forthcoming.
[38] Maug, Ernst, 1998, Large Shareholders as Monitors: Is There a Tradeo¤ Between Liquidity
     and Control?, Journal of Finance 53, 65-98.
[39] Narayanan, M. P., 1985, Managerial incentives for short-term results, The Journal of
     Finance 40, 1469-1484.
[40] Noe, T., 2002, Investor Activism and Financial Market Structure, Review of Financial
     Studies 15, 289-318.
[41] Shleifer, Andrei, and Robert W. Vishny, 1986, Large shareholders and corporate control,
     Journal of Political Economy 94, 461-488.
[42] Song, Fenghua, 2017, Blockholder short-term incentives, structures, and governance,
     Working Paper.
[43] Stein, Jeremy C., 1988, Takeover threats and managerial myopia. Journal of Political
     Econonomy 96, 61–80.
[44] Stein, Jeremy C., 1989, E¢ cient capital markets, ine¢ cient …rms: a model of myopic
     corporate behavior, Quartely Journal of Economics 104, 655–669.
[45] Thakor, Richard, 2021, Short-termism, managerial Talent, and …rm Value, The Review of
     Corporate Finance Studies 10, 473–512.
[46] Xiong, Yan, and Xu Jiang, 2021, Economic Consequences of Managerial Compensation
     Contract Disclosure, Working paper.




                                             47
A      Proofs of the Baseline Model (Section 2)
Proof of Lemma 1.        The proof of this lemma provided right after the lemma in the main
text.

Proof of Lemma 2. First, I prove part (i). Note that conditional on implementing the
intervention, the payo¤ of the activist with a good intervention from exerting e¤ort is given by

                                  [ P + (1       ) max fP;    H g]       c;

while his payo¤ from not exerting e¤ort is given by

                                   [ P + (1       ) max fP;      M g];


Therefore, the activist exerts e¤ort only if

        [ P + (1      ) max fP;   H g]   c            [ P + (1       ) max fP;     M g]
                                                       1 c
                                             ,                   max fP;      Hg   max fP;   Mg ;   (21)
                                                  1

and the activist exerts e¤ort if the inequality in (21) holds strictly.
     Suppose that c > c. Since the RHS of (21) is weakly smaller than H            M , then (1) and
c > c imply that (21) is never satis…ed. As a result, the activist never exerts e¤ort.
     Suppose that c < c. There are two cases to consider: If P       M , then (21) implies that the
activist with a good intervention always exerts e¤ort. In contrast, if P > M , then it must be
that the activist with a good intervention is exerting e¤ort with positive probability (because
if he never exerts e¤ort, P      M would have to be satis…ed). This completes the proof of part
(i).
     Second, I prove part (ii) by showing that for any c > 0, it must be that         < 1 if q = 0.
Suppose that instead, there exists c > 0 such that       = 1 if q = 0. However, then it must be
that P = H , and hence the activist with a good intervention strictly prefers to deviate to
shirking and exiting (since doing so increases his payo¤ by c), yielding a contradiction with
    = 1.

Proof of Lemma 3.   First, note that the activist with a bad intervention always exits,
because P > L whenever q < 1 since > 0. Even in the corner case of q = 1, he weakly


                                                  48
prefers to exit since P = L .
    Second, I show that the activist with a good intervention that has exerted e¤ort does not
exit unless hit by a liquidity shock. Note that for this result, it is su¢ cient to show that
P < H . Suppose this is not the case. Then, it must be that P = H , and hence,                = 1.
However, then the activist with a good intervention strictly prefers to deviate to shirking and
exiting, yielding a contradiction with P = H .
    Third, I show that the activist with a good intervention always exits if he has shirked. There
are two cases to consider. First, suppose that P > M . Then, the activist that has shirked
strictly prefers exiting over not exiting. Second, suppose that P          M . However, then the
maximum expected payo¤ that the activist with a good intervention can achieve is given by
  [ P + (1       ) max fP ; M g] if he shirks. In contrast, if he exerts e¤ort and does not exit
unless hit by a liquidity shock, then he gets an expected payo¤ of [ P + (1              ) H c].
Due to (1), c < c implies that the latter of these two payo¤s is strictly larger, implying that
there cannot be any activist with a good intervention that shirks in this equilibrium.

Proof of Proposition 1.         Note that q 2 (0; 1) because due to (1), c < c implies that
            1 c
0< H 1               L.
    Note that by Lemma 3, in any equilibrium if the activist with a good intervention exerts
e¤ort, then he never exits (unless he has to, that is, unless he is hit by a liquidity shock) and
gets a payo¤ of [ P + (1        ) H ] c, and in contrast if he does not exert e¤ort, then he
gets a payo¤ of P (because he always exists). Therefore, the best response of the activist
with a good intervention (that is, the probability that he exerts e¤ort) as a function of the
exit price P is given by
                                8                                     1   c
                                >
                                < 0;                if P >   H    1
                                                                            ;
                                                                      1   c
                         (P ) =   any     2 [0; 1]; if P =   H              ;                (22)
                                >
                                :
                                                                  1
                                                                      1   c
                                  1;                if P <   H    1
                                                                            :

Suppose that q < q. Then, P > H 1 1 c if = 1 (due to (3)), and P               M <      H   1
                                                                                                1   c

if = 0 (where the latter inequality follows from c < c). Therefore, it must be that      2 (0; 1),




                                               49
                                1   c
and hence P =      H        1
                                        . In turn, this yields (6), since plugging (3) in P yields

                        1       c                             (1           q) [               H               M ] + (1        q)          M +q    L
              H                         = P =
                   1                                                                      1 (1                 q) (1           )
                                                                                                                                  c
                                                                                                                                      !
                                                                  1                       q( M                   L)  1
                                        ,             =                           1+                              c
                                                              1        q                              H                   M


Note that    > 0 since
                                                              c                                           1   c
                   q(       M                L)       1                                       H       1               M +q(               M       L)
            0<1+                         c                         ,0<                                                c                                ;
                                H                     M                                                           H                   M

                                                                      1       c
which holds since M > L and                           H           1
                                                                    > M (where the latter follows from c < c due
to (1)). Moreover, also note that                         < 1 if q < q, because

                                                                                              c
                                                                                                  !                                           c
                        1                     q(      M                L)             1                                               1
             <1,                    1+                             c                                  <1,q<                               c           =q
                   1        q                             H                           M                                       H                   L


                                                                            c
Moreover, also note that: (a)     is strictly increasing in q (because H            M > 0 and
    > 0), (b) ! 1 as q ! q, and (c) q 2 (0; 1) as shown at the beginning of the proof.
    Suppose that q q. Then, to show that in equilibrium it must be = 1, (22) implies that
it is su¢ cient to show that P < H 1 1 c if           < 1, and P       H  1
                                                                            1 c
                                                                                 if    = 1. In
                      1 c                                                                  1 c
turn, since H 1           > M (due to c < c), it is su¢ cient to show that P         H   1
if    = 1, and P (which is given by (3)) is strictly increasing in if P       M . To see that
                1 c
P        H    1
                    if = 1, note that

             (1    q)           H +q          L                                   1       c
    P    =                                                    H
             1    (1        q) (1             )                           1
                                                              1           c                                                                           1    c
         , (1      q) (1            )             H                                   + (1        q)           H +q       L                   H
                                                          1                                                                                       1
         , q      q:




                                                                                  50
And …nally, to see that P is strictly increasing in                                 if P        M , note that


     @P        @ (1 q)        H + (1  q) (1   ) M +q L
0 <      ,0<
     @         @             1 (1 q) (1       )
     (1 q)     H + (1   q) (1    ) M + q L (1 q)        H + (1 q) (1                                                                 ) M +q       L
   ,                                        +                                                                                                         (1   q) (1
              1 (1 q) (1         )                    [1 (1 q) (1                                                                    )]2
         (1 q)    H   (1 q) M               P
   , 0<                            +                  (1 q) (1   )
           1 (1 q) (1         )      1 (1 q) (1     )
   ,   M <   H + (1    )P ;

which always holds if P           M.


Proof of Proposition 2. First, I show that (1 q) is strictly increasing in q if q < q.
Note that since P is given by (3) and P does not change with q if q < q by Proposition 1(i),
applying Implicit Function Theorem (IFT) on (3) w.r.t. q yields

                          d (1        q)       [           H          M ] + (1           q)    M +q        L
                    0 =
                          dq                       1           (1     q)       (1         )
                                                                                                                            d (1     q)
                    0 = [(1      q)        [       H                M ] + (1        q)     M +q     L ] (1              )
                                                                                                                                   dq
                              d (1      q)
                          +                            [        H          M]            M +    L     [1           (1       q)     (1     )]
                                      dq
      d (1     q)               ( M                    L ) [1         (1    q)        (1    )]
                      =                                                                                        :                               (23)
             dq               H + q (1                 )       L      [1    (1        q) (1    )]      M


Note that L < M implies that the numerator of the RHS is positive, therefore it remains to
show that the denominator is positive as well. To see this, note that for any q < q, Proposition
1 implies that     < 1 and hence that P > M , because if P                M then c < c (due to
(1)) would imply that the activist with a good intervention would strictly prefer to exert e¤ort
and receive a payo¤ of [ P + (1          ) H ] c rather than to shirk and receive a payo¤ of
  [ P + (1      ) max fP ; M g]. Moreover, since Proposition 1 implies that P is continuous
w.r.t. q (note that plugging (5) in (8) yields that P (q) is equal to (7)), this also implies that
P        M when q = q. Since the denominator of the RHS in (23) is strictly decreasing in q
(because L < M ), it is su¢ cient to show that it is positive for q = q. Plugging P for q = q




                                                                      51
from Proposition 1 yields

                     (1 q) H + q L
  M    P ,     M                   ,0            (1   q)    H +q   L      M   1   (1   q) (1   ) :
                     1 (1 q) (1  )

Since q 2 (0; 1) by Proposition 1, this implies that the denominator of the RHS in (23) is
positive, concluding that (1 q) is strictly increasing in q if q < q. Moreover, note that by
Proposition 1,      and P are continuous w.r.t. q at q = q, and hence going through the same
steps above yields that (1 q) is also strictly increasing in q from below at q = q.
    Second, I show that V is strictly increasing in q if q < q. Note that (9) and (3) imply that
for all q 2 [0; 1],
                         V = H ( H P ) [1 (1 q) (1                    )] :                  (24)

Note that P is constant and P < H for all q q by Proposition 1. Therefore, since (1 q)
is strictly increasing in q if q < q (and also strictly increasing in q from below at q = q), so is
V .
    Third, if q     q, then     = 1 by Proposition 1, and hence (9) and L < H imply that
V strictly decreases as q increases. Due to the previous step, this implies that V attains its
unique maximum at q = q.

Proof of Corollary 1. Note that both of results that (a) q strictly decreases as L decreases
and (b) q strictly increases with c directly follow from the the de…nition of q in (5).
    Therefore, it remains to show that V (q) strictly increases as L decreases. To see this
result, note that plugging (5) in (8) yields that P (q) is given by (7) and does not change w.r.t.
  L . Proposition 1 also implies that     = 1 if q = q, and hence (24) and P < H imply that
V (q) is strictly larger if q is smaller. Since q strictly decreases as L decreases, this implies
that V (q) strictly increases as L decreases, concluding the proof.




                                                52
INTERNET APPENDIX
B     Online Appendix: Mapping and Proofs for Section 3.2
This section shows that all the results from the baseline model (i.e., Section 2.3) continue to
hold under the model extended by Section 3.1. The proofs are provided in Section B.1. The
mapping of the results in this section to their counterparts in the baseline are as follows (the
formal results are provided below as well, right after the mapping):

 (I) In Lemmas 5 and 6 below, I show that Lemmas 2 and 3 from the baseline model continue
     to hold, with the following exceptions:

      (a) First, (1) in Lemma 2 is replaced with (11). This is because if the activist with a
          good intervention keeps his stake with probability 1        (that is, whenever he is
          not hit with a liquidity shock), the bene…t he realizes from exerting e¤ort is now
            (1    l ) (1  )( H       M ) rather than  (1     )( H      M ) due to the existence
          of taxes. Note that s < s is assumed (where s is given by (26)) due to parameter
          restriction made in Section 3.1, where restriction is made due to part (ii) of Lemma
          5, as it was explained in that section.
       (b) Second, Lemma 3 continue to hold as well, with the exception that part (i) (i.e.,
           the result that the activist that has implemented a bad intervention always exits)
           is proven by a di¤erent lemma later on (by Lemma 8 in the Online Appendix D.1),
           since this particular result now utilizes endogenous entry.

(II) Proposition 3 in Section 3.2 shows that all of the other results from the baseline model
     (Propositions 1 and 2 and Corollary 1) continue to hold as well, with the exception that
     it no longer speci…es the closed form solutions for P ; and for    when q < q.

Lemma 5 In any equilibrium for any q 2 [0; 1), conditional on implementing the intervention:

  (i) The agent with a good intervention never exerts e¤ort if c > c and exerts e¤ort with
      positive probability if

                               c<c         (1     l ) (1            )(   H       M) :             (25)

 (ii) If c < c, then the agent with a good intervention always exerts e¤ort if          s   s , where

                                                      c        (1        ) b
                                       s        l +                                               (26)
                                                          (1        )        H


Lemma 6 In any equilibrium for any q 2 [0; 1), conditional on implementing the intervention:

                                                 53
  (i) If the activist with a good intervention exerts e¤ort, then he does not exit unless hit by a
      liquidity shock.
 (ii) If the activist with a good intervention shirks, he always exits.
(iii) The activist with good intervention shirks with positive probability (i.e.,                                      < 1) if no bad
      intervention is implemented (i.e., q = 0).

B.1       Proofs
This section provides the proofs of all the results listed in Sections 3.2 and B. An auxiliary result
(i.e., Lemma 7) has been relegated to the end of this section, to Section B.1.1 (“Supplemental
results for Section B.1”). I refer to these results in some of the proofs below.
Proof of Lemma 5.
    I start by proving part (i). Note that the payo¤ of the activist with a good intervention
from exerting e¤ort is given by

        (1       s) [
                    V + (1           )P (1      )V ]
      +(1        ) max f(1         s ) [ V + (1   )P         (1            )V ] ; (1       l) [     H    (1            )V ] + bg       G    c;

while his payo¤ from shirking is given by

        (1       s) [
                    V + (1           )P (1      )V ]
      +(1        ) max f(1         s ) [ V + (1   )P         (1            )V ] ; (1       l) [     M    (1            )V ] + bg       G;


where G is the activist’s cost of implementing the intervention. Therefore, the activist exerts
e¤ort only if

          (1     ) max f(1          s) [  V + (1       )P        (1         )V ] ; (1       l) [     H       (1         )V ] + bg c
          (1     ) max f(1          s ) [ V + (1       )P        (1         )V ] ; (1       l) [     M       (1         )V ] + bg ;

or, equivalently,
      1      c
                        max f(1     s) [   V + (1      )P        (1         )V ] ; (1        l) [    H       (1         )V ] + bg (27)
  1
                         max f(1       s) [   V + (1    )P            (1       )V ] ; (1          l) [   M        (1       )V ] + bg

and the activist exerts e¤ort if the inequality in (27) holds strictly.
   Suppose that c > c. Since the RHS of the inequality in (27) is weakly smaller than
(1     l )( H     M ), (25) implies that (27) is never satis…ed. As a result, the activist never
exerts e¤ort.
   Suppose that c < c. It is su¢ cient to prove the activist does not always shirk in equilibrium.
Suppose he does. Then, V           M and P          M . Therefore, V + (1         )P        M and


                                                            54
                                                                          1 c
  M    (1 )V         0. Hence, combining with s     l , (27) reduces to 1         (1 l )( H     M ).
However, this inequality holds strictly (because c < c), yielding a contradiction with the activist
always shirking in equilibrium.
     Next, I prove part (ii). There are two steps: If c < c and s         s , then (a)   < 1 cannot
be an equilibrium, and (b) = 1 is always an equilibrium (recall that is the likelihood that
the activist with a good intervention exerts e¤ort). I start with (a). Suppose that < 1 is an
equilibrium. We already know from part (i) that > 0. Hence, it must be that 2 (0; 1), that
is, the activist is indi¤erent between exerting e¤ort and not. This implies that in equilibrium,
(27) must be holding with equality:
    1           c
                        = max f(1                  s) [      V + (1            )P             (1         )V ] ; (1             l) [    H        (1        )V ] + bg(28)
1
                                    max f(1                s) [   V + (1          )P               (1          )V ] ; (1          l) [     M         (1       )V ] + bg

Then, it must be that

                            (1      l) [    H      (1             )V ] + b > (1               s) [      V + (1              )P            (1         )V ] ;

because otherwise the RHS of (28) equals 0, violating the equality (28) itself. Moreover, it also
must be that

                            (1      s) [    V + (1                )P      (1         )V ] > (1                   l) [   M        (1            )V ] + b;

because otherwise (28) cannot be satis…ed due to c < c. Therefore, (28) reduces to
            1           c
                             = (1          l) [   H         (1         )V ] + b          (1          s) [      V + (1             )P           (1         )V ] ,        (29)
      1
or, equivalently,
                    1        c
                                    b = (1            l)     H      ( s        l ) [(1         )V ]            (1       s) [     V + (1                )P ]             (30)
            1

Note that the RHS in (30) is decreasing in P and V since                                                        s 2 [ l ; 1). Moreover, since P                     <     H
and V < H (because < 1), (29) implies that
            1           c
                                 b > (1           l) [      H      (1      )    H]        (1            s) [        H + (1            )    H         (1       )    H] ;
        1
or equivalently s < s , yielding a contradiction.
    Finally, I prove (b), that is,    = 1 is an equilibrium if c < c and s         s . For this,
it is su¢ cient to show that the activist weakly prefers exerting e¤ort over shirking in this
equilibrium. In turn, it is su¢ cient to show that (27) holds in this equilibrium. For this to


                                                                                     55
hold, it must be

                        (1        l) [    H          (1           )V ] + b > (1           s) [    V + (1             )P          (1        )V ] ;

because otherwise the RHS of the inequality in (27) equals 0, violating the equality (27) itself.
Therefore, (27) reduces to
    1           c
                             (1          l) [       H       (1          )V ] + b                                                                            (31)
1
                                  max f(1                  s) [   V + (1           )P        (1          )V ] ; (1        l) [    M        (1       )V ] + bg

There are two cases to consider. First, suppose that

                    (1            l) [    M          (1           )V ] + b      (1        s) [    V + (1             )P          (1        )V ] :           (32)

Then, (31) reduces to 1 1 c  (1     l )( H     M ), which holds due to c < c. Second, suppose
that (32) does not hold. Then, (31) reduces to
            1       c
                             b      (1          l) [       H       (1      )V ]      (1          s) [    V + (1           )P          (1        )V ] .      (33)
    1

Note that the RHS in (33) is decreasing in P and V , since s 2 [ l ; 1). Moreover, P                                                                            H
and V       H . Therefore, it is su¢ cient to show that (33) holds for P = H and V =                                                                            H,
that is,
            1       c
                             b       (1             l) [    H      (1       )   H]      (1        s) [      H + (1          )     H        (1       )    H] ;
        1
which is equivalent to                          s           s and therefore holds by assumption.


Proof of Lemma 6. First, I prove part (i). To that end, note that for any V and P , if the
activist with a good intervention exerts e¤ort, then it must be that he weakly prefers exerting
e¤ort, that is (27) holds as explained in the proof of Lemma 5. Then, it must be that

                        (1        l) [    H          (1           )V ] + b > (1           s) [    V + (1             )P          (1        )V ] ;           (34)

because otherwise the RHS of (27) is not positive, violating the equality (27) itself. In turn,
(34) implies that for the activist that has intervened and exerted e¤ort, his payo¤ from keeping
his stake is strictly larger than his payo¤ from exiting.
    Second, I prove part (ii). To prove by contradiction, suppose that with positive probability,
the activist with a good intervention implements the intervention, shirks, and keeps his stake.
Then, his payo¤ from keeping his stake must be weakly larger than exiting, that is:

                    (1            l) [    M          (1           )V ] + b      (1        s) [    V + (1             )P          (1        )V ] .           (35)

                                                                                     56
However, c < c implies that

 (1     ) f(1      l) [   H     (1      )V ] + bg    c > (1           ) f(1      l) [    M    (1   )V ] + bg ;

and combining this with (35) yields

                               (1        s) [   V + (1          )P      (1)V ]
                            + (1         ) f(1      l) [    H    (1    )V ] + bg c
                          >    (1         s ) [ V + (1        )P    (1    )V ]                             (36)
                            + (1         ) f(1      l) [    M    (1    )V ] + bg ,

Note that due to (35), the whole expression after the inequality sign in (36) represents the
maximum payo¤ of the activist if he shirks. Therefore, conditional on implementing the inter-
vention, the activist’s payo¤ from exerting e¤ort and keeping his stake (unless hit by a liquidity
shock) is strictly larger than his payo¤ from shirking (regardless of whether he keeps his stake
or not after shirking). This yields a contradiction with the starting assumption that the activist
with a good intervention implements the intervention and shirks with positive probability.
    Finally, I prove part (iii). To see this part, suppose that q = 0 and           = 1. Then,
V = P = H . Therefore, conditional on implementing the intervention, the activist’s pro…t
from shirking and exiting is

                    (1        s) [   V + (1     )P         (1        )V ] = (1      s)       H;            (37)

while his pro…t from exerting e¤ort is given by (recall that due to part (ii), he must be keeping
his stake unless hit by a liquidity shock)

                         (1   s ) [ V + (1       )P      (1    )V ]
                       +(1   ) f(1       l) [ H    (1      )V ] + bg c
                     =  [ (1    s ) + (1     )(1    l )]    H   c + (1 ) b                                 (38)

Between these two payo¤s (37) and (38), s < s implies that the former is strictly larger.
Therefore, the activist with a good intervention strictly prefers shirking over exerting e¤ort,
yielding a contradiction with = 1. This concludes the proof.

Proof of Proposition 3. Note that an activist intervenes only if he has acquired a stake in
the target, because otherwise his payo¤ is weakly smaller than       i , where i is the activist’s
cost of intervening for intervention i 2 fG; Bg (that is, G = and B = + ). Throughout
the proof, I assume that all of the activists who purchase a stake and make a disclosure always
intervene, which is a result that I con…rm in Lemma 8 in Online Appendix D.1. Therefore, an
activist intervenes if and only if he buys a stake in the target and makes a disclosure. I also
assume that if an activist with a bad intervention purchases a stake in a target and intervenes,


                                                     57
then he always exits, which is also a result that I con…rm in Lemma 8 in Online Appendix
D.1. Therefore, combining with Lemma 6, the average …rm value conditional on the exit by
the activist following intervention is given by Q0 + P , where P ( ; q) is given by (3), and the
average …rm value conditional on stake disclosure by the activist is given by Q0 + V , where
V ( ; q) is given by (9). Note that whenever the notation V (q) (P (q)) is used, it represents
V ( ; q) (P ( ; q)).
Mapping of the proof. The proof consists of several steps. Among these, steps 6, 8, and 10
prove that for any q 2 [0; 1), an equilibrium       always exists and it is unique, steps 8 and 10
prove that     is continuous in q for all q 2 [0; 1), step 5 proves that q 2 (0; 1), steps 8 and 10
prove part (i), steps 12 and 13 prove part (ii), step 11 proves that q strictly increases with c,
step 14 proves that q strictly increases with L , and step 15 proves that V (q) strictly increases
as L decreases. The rest of the steps are intermediary steps. The steps are as follows.
   Step 1: Note that any equilibrium with 2 (0; 1) has to satisfy
                                                                                              1   c
   (1     s) [   V + (1     )P       (1      )V ] = (1       l) [   H    (1    )V ]                   + b,   (39)
                                                                                          1
which is equivalent to
                                                                                              1   c
   (1    s)      V +( s     l )(1     )V + (1       s ) (1      )P = (1        l)    H                + b.   (40)
                                                                                          1
   Note that this directly follows from Lemma 6, as this lemma implies that for an activist
with a good intervention, in any equilibrium his payo¤ from shirking is given by

                           (1       s) [   V + (1     )P       (1       )V ]    G;                           (41)

because he always exits, while his payo¤ from exerting e¤ort is given by

                            (1      s) [V + (1        )P       (1    )V ]                                    (42)
                          +(1       ) f(1  l) [     H   (1       )V ] + bg          G    c;

because he does not exit unless hit by a liquidity shock. Since      2 (0; 1) implies that (41) is
equal to (42), this yields (39).
   Step 2: I show that for any given q 2 [0; 1), if there exists any 0 2 [0; 1] that satis…es (39),
then    = 0 is the unique equilibrium for q, and it must be that P ( 0 ; q) > M (recall that
both V ( ; q) and P ( ; q) are functions of ). To see this, note that (39) is equivalent to (40)
by step 1. Then, it must be that P ( 0 ; q) > M , because if P ( 0 ; q)      M then c < c ^ implies




                                                    58
that (40) is violated, because then V                    H and hence


                          (1          s) V +( s    l )(1        )V + (1                  s ) (1        )P
                          (1          s)   H +( s    l )(1       ) H + (1                  s ) (1       )   M
                                               1 c
                       < (1           l) H         + b;
                                             1

where the last inequality follows from c < c^, where c^ is given in (12). This establishes that
P ( 0 ; q) > M . In turn, since P ( ; q) is strictly increasing in if P ( ; q) > M (by the proof
of Proposition 1), it must be that P ( ; q) > P ( 0 ; q) for any > 0 and P ( ; q) < P ( 0 ; q)
for any < 0 . Moreover, V ( ; q) is strictly increasing in . Therefore, it follows that for
any > 0 , the LHS of (39) is strictly larger than the RHS (as can be seen more clearly from
(40)), and hence (41) and (42) imply that an activist with a good intervention strictly prefers
to shirk, yielding a contradiction with > 0             0. Similarly, for any < 0 , the LHS of
(39) is strictly smaller than the RHS, and hence (41) and (42) imply that an activist with a
good intervention strictly prefers to exert e¤ort, yielding a contradiction with < 0 1. In
contrast, = 0 is indeed an equilibrium because (39) is satis…ed for = 0 , and (39) implies
that an activist with a good intervention is indi¤erent between shirking and exerting e¤ort.
    Step 3: I show that if q = 0, then it must be that       2 (0; 1). To see this, suppose = 1.
Then, V = P = H and hence

                         (1           s) V +( s    l )(1         )V + (1                 s ) (1        )P
                       = (1           s)   H +( s    l )(1        ) H + (1                 s ) (1       )   H
                                               1 c
                       > (1           l) H         + b;                                                                         (43)
                                             1

where the last inequality follows from s < s (where s is given by (26)). Therefore, (41)
and (42) imply that an activist with a good intervention strictly prefers to shirk, yielding a
contradiction with = 1. Next, supppose that = 0. Then, V = P = M . However, then
(41) and (42) imply that the activist with a good intervention strictly prefers to exert e¤ort
(yielding a contradiction with = 0), because
                                                                                                                1    c
      (1       s) [   V + (1          )P       (1   )V ] < (1         l) [    H      (1           )V ]                   + b;
                                                                                                            1
which is satis…ed because
      1    c
                b < (1            l)       H   (1   s)     M    ( s          l )(1        )   M        (1       s ) (1     ) (44)
                                                                                                                             M
  1
                              1   c
                      ,                    b<( s     l)     M + (1           l) (    H            M)
                          1



                                                           59
which holds due to c < c (where c is given by (25)).
   Step 4: I show that if V ( ; q) 0 then the LHS of (40) is strictly smaller than the RHS.
This is because the RHS is positive due to c < c (where c is given by (25)), and the LHS is
not positive because V ( ; q) 0 implies that P ( ; q) 0, which in turn satis…ed because (3)
and (9) imply that
                                                  H  V ( ; q)
                             P ( ; q) = H                                               (45)
                                              1 (1 q) (1       )
for any and q.
    Step 5: Letting q be the value of q such that (40) holds for = 1, I show that q is unique
and q 2 (0; 1). Note that q is unique because (a) P (1; q) is strictly decreasing in q (as shown
in the proof of Lemma 7), and (b) V (1; q) is strictly decreasing in q due to (9). Moreover,
q 2 (0; 1) because (a) P (1; q) and V (1; q) are continuous in q, (b) if q = 0 and = 1, then
(43) implies that the LHS of (40) is strictly larger than the RHS, and (c) if = 1 and q " 1,
then P (1; q) and V (1; q) become negative, implying that the LHS of (40) becomes strictly
smaller than the RHS, because the LHS becomes negative and the RHS is positive due to c < c
(where c is given by (25)).
    Step 6: Note that due to step 2 above, step 5 implies that for q = q,          = 1 is the unique
equilibrium and satis…es (40), and P (1; q) > M .
    Step 7: I show that for any q < q, there exists 0 2 (0; 1) such that (40) holds for = 0 .
To see this, note that for any q < q, if = 1 then the LHS in (40) is strictly larger than the
RHS, because as implied by step 5, (a) (40) holds with equality if q = q and = 1, and (b)
holding = 1 constant, P (1; q) and V (1; q) strictly decrease in q for all q q. On the other
hand, for any q < q, if = 0 then V            M and P        M , which in turn imply that the LHS
in (40) is strictly smaller than the RHS due to (44). Therefore, due to continuity of the LHS
(40) w.r.t. , there has to be some 0 2 (0; 1) such that this equation holds.
    Step 8: Due to step 2, step 7 implies that for any q < q, the equilibrium is unique, it satis…es
    2 (0; 1) and (40), and it must be P > M in this equilibrium. Moreover,                 is strictly
increasing and continuous for all q < q (including when q is approaching q from below). To
see this latter argument, note that as q decreases and is …xed, (a) V ( ; q) strictly increases
(as implied by (9)), (b) P ( ; q) strictly increases (as shown in the proof of Lemma 7), and
(c) V ( ; q) and P ( ; q) are continuous. Similarly, as increases and q is …xed, (a) V ( ; q)
strictly increases (as again implied by (9)), (b) P ( ; q) strictly increases (as shown in the proof
of Proposition 1, because P > M ), and (c) V ( ; q) and P ( ; q) are continuous. Since (40)
must be satis…ed in equilibrium for all q q (note that this is implied for q = q due to step
6), it indeed follows that     is strictly increasing and continuous for all q < q (including when
q is approaching q from below).
    Step 9: Note that P (q) and V (q) are continuous in q for all q 2 [0; 1) (because, by
de…nition, P (q) = P ( (q); q) and V (q) = V ( (q); q)). In particular, for q                  q, the
continuity is implied by step 8, and for q > q, it follows trivially since      = 1, which is shown
in the next step below.


                                                 60
     Step 10: I show that for all q q, the equilibrium is unique and given by = 1. For q = q,
this result follows directly from step 6 above. Therefore, it remains to show this result for any
q > q. To that end, note that for any q > q and 2 [0; 1], the LHS in (40) is strictly smaller
than the RHS, because (a) (40) holds for q = q and = 1 by step 5, (b) P (1; q) > M by step
6, (c) P ( ; q) strictly increases in if P ( ; q) > M (as shown in the proof of Proposition 1),
and it also strictly decreases in q (as shown in the proof of Lemma 7), and (d) V ( ; q) strictly
decreases in q and strictly increases in . In turn, since the LHS in (40) is strictly smaller than
the RHS, (41) and (42) imply that an activist with a good intervention strictly prefers to exert
e¤ort, establishing the unique equilibrium as = 1.
     Step 11: I show that q strictly increases with c. To see this, compare any two possible
values of c; denoted by c1 and c2 , where c2 > c1 . Recall that if q = q, then (40) holds for = 1
by step 5, and in equilibrium = 1 by step 6. However, holding = 1 and q = q(c1 ) constant,
if c increases from c1 to c2 , the LHS of (40) becomes strictly larger than the RHS. Moreover,
given c = c2 and = 1, the LHS of (40) is strictly larger than the RHS for any q < q(c1 ) as
well. This is because P (1; q) and V (1; q) strictly decrease w.r.t. q for all q < q(c1 ). Since
(40) has to be satis…ed for q = q, this implies that q(c2 ) > q(c1 ).
     Step 12: I show that V (q) is strictly increasing in q if q < q. To see this, consider any q1 and
q2 such that 0 q1 < q2 < q. Suppose that V (q2 ) V (q1 ). However, then P (q2 ) < P (q1 ),
which follows from combining Lemma 7 with P (q1 ) > M and P (q2 ) > M , where the latter
inequalities are in turn implied by step 8. Therefore, at the equilibrium (q), the LHS of (40)
evaluated at q = q2 is strictly smaller than the LHS of (40) evaluated at q = q1 , yielding a
contradiction with the fact that at the equilibrium (q), (40) is satis…ed for both q = q1 and
q = q2 (by step 8).
     Step 13: I show that V (q) attains its unique maximum at q = q, and it is strictly decreasing
in q if q q. Because of step 12, as well as because V (q) is continuous for all q (by step 9),
it is su¢ cient to show that if q q, then V (q) is strictly decreasing in q. In turn, this holds
because = 1 for all q q (by step 10) and V ( ; q) is given by (9).
     Step 14 : I show that q strictly increases with L . To prove by contradiction, consider any
two values 0L and 00L that L can take, and suppose that 00L < 0L and q( 00L )                  q( 0L ).
Note that step 6 implies that for q = q,         = 1 is the unique equilibrium and satis…es (40).
However, the LHS of (40) evaluated at equilibrium (i.e., at = 1) for L = 00L and q = q( 00L )
is strictly smaller than the LHS of (40) evaluated at equilibrium (i.e., at = 1) for L = 0L
and q = q( 0L ) (because V ( ; q) and P ( ; q) strictly decrease in q and strictly increase in
   L ), which yields a contradiction with the fact that (40) is satis…ed in equilibrium for both
(q; L ) = (q( 0L ); 0L ) and (q; L ) = (q( 00L ); 00L ) (again, by step 6).
     Step 15 : I show that V (q) strictly increases as L decreases. To see this, again consider
any two values 0L and 00L that L can take such that 00L < 0L . To prove by contradiction,
suppose that V (q( 0L )j L = 0L )          V (q( 00L )j L = 00L ). Then, since (40) is satis…ed at
equilibrium (i.e., for      = 1) for both (q; L ) = (q( 0L ); 0L ) and (q; L ) = (q( 00L ); 00L ),
it follows that P (q( 0L )j L = 0L ) P (q( 00L )j L = 00L ) < H (where the last inequality
follows from q > 0, which was shown in step 5). However, then it must be that V (q( 0L )j L =

                                                  61
  0               00            00
  L) < V    (q(   L )j   L =    L ), because: (a) (9) and (3) imply that for all q 2 [0; 1],

                         V ( ; q) =    H      (    H       P ( ; q)) [1             (1    q) (1           )] ;
             00          0
   (b) q(    L ) < q(    L ) by step 14, and (c)               (q(    L )j       L ) = 1 for any          L due to step 6.




B.1.1      Supplemental results for Section B.1
This section provides the supplemental results that are utilized by some of the proofs in Section
B.1.

Lemma 7 Let q1 ; q2 2 [0; 1) such that q2 > q1 . Suppose that if an activist with a bad interven-
tion implements his intervention, then he always exits. Also suppose that for both q = q1 and
q = q2 , P (q)    M in equilibrium. Then, P (q2 )     P (q1 ) implies that V (q2 ) > V (q1 ).

Proof of Lemma 7. Recall that V ( ; q) is given by (9). Moreover, Lemma 6 and the
assumption that if an activist with a bad intervention always exits after intervening imply that
in any equilibrium, P ( ; q) is given by (3). Throughout the proof, I denote the equilibrium
variables by ( 1 ; V1 ; P1 ) and ( 2 ; V2 ; P2 ) for q = q1 and q = q2 respectively.
    First, I show that for a given , P ( ; q) is strictly decreasing in q for any q 2 [0; 1). Indeed,
plugging in (3) for P yields

     @P              H (1   ) M+ L                                        (1      q)          H + (1       q) (1   ) M +q     L
0 >      ,0>                                                                                                                        (1   )
      @q          1 (1 q) (1     )                                                       [1        (1    q) (1     )]2
   ,   ( H  L ) + (1   )( M   L ) > 0;


which always holds.
   Second, note that P2       P1     M implies that 2 > 1 . This is because as shown in the
proof of Proposition 1, if P ( ; q)   M for any given q, then P ( ; q) is strictly increasing in .
Combining this with the …rst step above yields the desired result.
   Third, I show that P2 P1         M implies that V2 > V1 . The proof consists of two substeps.
First, I show that for P2 P1        M to hold, it must be that (1   q2 ) 2 > (1 q1 ) 1 . Suppose
that (1 q2 ) 2 (1 q1 ) 1 . However, then

                                      (1     q2 ) 2        H         (1      q1 ) 1      H:                                  (46)

Moreover,     2 >    1 and q2 > q1 also imply that

                               (1   q2 )(1        2)   M         (1            q1 )(1         1)    M;                       (47)
                                                  q2   L       < q1          L                                               (48)



                                                               62
However, since P is given by (3), combining (1 q2 ) 2              (1 q1 ) 1 and (46)-(48) with
P2     M    0 and P 1     M     0 yields P 2 < P1 , yielding a contradiction.
   Second, I complete the proof by showing that it must be V2 > V1 . Indeed, note that (3)
and (9) imply that in equilibrium, P can also be expressed as

                                                         H     V
                                P =     H                                                      (49)
                                                1   (1       q) (1   )

Also note that V1 < H and V2 < H since 1 < 1 (because 1 < 2                   1) and q2 > 0.
Combining this with (1 q2 ) 2 > (1 q1 ) 1 , P2 P1 , and (49) implies that V2 > V1 , concluding
the proof.



C     Online Appendix: Proofs for Policy Implications Un-
      der Exogenous q or (Section 3.3.1)
Proof of Proposition 4. Note that it is su¢ cient to show the comparative statics stated
for , since those stated for V follow immediately due to (9).
   First, I prove the proposition for q < q. Note that by part (i) of Proposition 3, 2 (0; 1).
In turn, step 1 in the proof of Proposition 3 implies that (39), which is equivalent to (40),
must be both satis…ed in equilibrium. Note that holding      and q constant, the LHS in (39)
becomes strictly smaller than the RHS as s and b increases or as l and decreases (because
  V + (1      )P    (1    )V > 0, V < H (due to < 1), and also P < V because

                                                         H     V ( ; q)
                             P ( ; q) =     H                                                  (50)
                                                    1    (1    q) (1    )

due to (3) and (9)). In turn, this implies that holding          and q constant, the LHS in (40)
becomes strictly smaller than the RHS as s and b increases, or as l and decreases. As a
result,    has to strictly increase so that (40) is established again, because (a) V ( ; q) strictly
increases in , and moreover, (b) P ( ; q) > M due to step 8 in the proof of Proposition 3
and P ( ; q) is strictly increasing in if P ( ; q) > M (by the proof of Proposition 1).
    Second, I prove the proposition for q > q. Note that by part (i) of Proposition 3,         = 1.
Moreover, note that by step 10 in the proof of Proposition 3, for any q > q and 2 [0; 1], the
LHS in (40) is strictly smaller than the RHS. Therefore, in turn (41) and (42) imply that an
activist with a good intervention strictly prefers to exert e¤ort, implying that the equilibrium
remains to be unique and satisfy = 1.
    Finally, I prove the proposition for q = q. Note that again by part (i) of Proposition 3,
   = 1. Moreover, step 6 in the proof of Proposition 3 implies that (40), which is equivalent
to (39), are both satis…ed in equilibrium. Note that holding         = 1 and q constant, the LHS
in (39) becomes strictly smaller than the RHS as s and b increases or as l and decreases

                                                    63
(because again, V + (1        )P      (1     )V > 0, V < H (because q = q, where q > 0 due
to Proposition 3), and P < V due to (50)). There are two cases to consider:
    (I) Suppose that s and b increases or l and decreases. Then, the LHS in (39) becomes
strictly smaller than the RHS for all 2 [0; 1] (again, holding q constant), because (39) is
equivalent to (40), and (a) V ( ; q) strictly increases in , and moreover, (b) P (1; q) > M due
to step 6 in the proof of Proposition 3 and P ( ; q) is strictly increasing in if P ( ; q) > M .
Since the LHS in (40) becomes strictly smaller than the RHS for all 2 [0; 1], in turn (41) and
(42) imply that an activist with a good intervention strictly prefers to exert e¤ort, implying
that the equilibrium remains to be unique and satisfy = 1.
    (II) Suppose that s and b decreases or l and increases. Then, holding               = 1 and q
constant, the LHS in (40) becomes strictly larger than the RHS. However, since the LHS in
(40) is never larger than the RHS in equilibrium (as implied by steps 6, 8, and 10 in the proof
of Proposition 3), this implies that      must change in response. In particular, since      = 1,
the only direction it can change is to decrease.

Proof of Proposition 5. The proof of this proposition is analogous to the proof of part (iii)
of Proposition 7, and thus not repeated here.



D      Online Appendix: Proofs for Policy Implications Un-
       der Endogenous q and (Section 3.3.2)
Proof of Lemma 4.            Note that whenever there exists an equilibrium where a positive
measure of activists intervene, I select that equilibrium. Moreover, in any such equilibrium,
(a) an activist never intervenes if he hasn’t acquired a stake (because otherwise he incurs the
cost of implementing the intervention but gets nothing), (b) if an activist has acquired a stake
and made a disclosure, then he always intervenes (by part (vi) of Lemma 8), and (c) the average
…rm value conditional on stake disclosure by the activist is given by Q0 + V , where V ( ; q)
is given by (9), and the average …rm value conditional on the exit by the activist following
intervention is given by Q0 + P , where P ( ; q) is given by (3). The latter is due to combining
Lemma 6 with part (ii) of Lemma 8.
    Also note that if any activist with a bad intervention enters in equilibrium, then the activists
with good interventions strictly prefer to enter. This is because the entry cost of is +
for the activists with bad interventions, while it is for the activists with good interventions.
On the other hand, after entering, the payo¤ of an activist with a good intervention is weakly
larger than that of an activist with a bad intervention.
    Therefore, to prove parts (i) and (ii), it is su¢ cient to show that if no activist with bad
intervention enters, then no activist with good interventions enters if > , and all of them




                                                64
enter if   < , where

                     (1     )b + (1        s )[   V (0) + (1       ) P (0)     (1   )V (0)];   (51)

where V (0) and P (0) are V (q) and P (q) evaluated at q = 0, respectively. To that end,
note that Proposition 3 implies that     2 (0; 1), because q = 0. This implies that the activist
with a good intervention is indi¤erent between exerting e¤ort and shirking if he enters. Since
Lemma 6 implies that an activist with a good intervention always exits if he shirks, it follows
that this activist’s payo¤ in equilibrium is given by

                       (1    s )[   V (0) + (1       ) P (0)     (1       )V (0)]   .          (52)

when q = 0. On the other hand, if the activist buys a stake and does not intervene, then his
payo¤ is (1       )b. This is because part (vi) of Lemma 8 implies that he does not disclose his
stake, hence he pays Q0 for his stake. Since he does not intervene, he keeps his stake (unless
hit by a liquidity shock) and gets a value of (Q0 + b) out of his stake (note that if he exits,
he gets a value of Q0 instead, so he strictly prefer to keep his stake). Comparing the payo¤
of (1      )b with the payo¤ of (52), no activist with good intervention enters if > , and all
of them enter if < .
Finally, as the last step, I show that there exists b > 0 such that 0 < if b < b and >
1 max f ; M = H g. Since is linear in b, it is su¢ cient to show this result for b = 0: First, I
show that if > 1       , then > 0. Note that this follows directly from (51), because (0) > 0
(due to Proposition 3), which also implies V (0) > M           0 and P (0) > M       0. Second,
I show that if > 1         M
                           H
                             , then   > 0.  Indeed, this holds because  >  1      M
                                                                                  H
                                                                                    implies that
  M    (1     ) H > 0, which in turn implies that (51) is positive, because P (0)         M    0
and V (0) 2 [ M ; H ], concluding the proof.

Proof of Proposition 6.          Note that < by assumption, and therefore all of the G
activists with good interventions enter due to Lemma 4. Also note that L < 0, and exit (q)
is continuous in q for all q, because      is continuous w.r.t. q by Proposition 3. Here, exit (q)
denotes the gross pro…t (that is, the payo¤ excluding the intervention cost ) of the activist
with a bad intervention from entering, because by Lemma 8, he always exits after intervening.
    First, I prove that exit (q) is strictly decreasing with q if exit (q)     0. In fact, I show a
stronger result: I show that exit (q) is strictly decreasing with q if exit (q) > " , where

                                     "      (1       s)   (    L ) > 0.


I show this result in three substeps: (a) First, I show that exit (q) is strictly decreasing with
q if q < q. Note that by steps 6 and 8 in the proof of Proposition 3, (40) is always satis…ed
in equilibrium. Since (40) is equivalent to (39) as explained in step 1 of the same proof, it is
su¢ cient to show that V (q) strictly increases in q. To prove by contradiction, suppose that
there exist q 0 and q 00 such that 0 q 0 < q 00 q and V (q 00 ) V (q 0 ). Since P (q 0 ) > M and

                                                    65
P (q 00 ) > M (due to steps 6 and 8 of Proposition 3), Lemma 7 implies that P (q 00 ) < P (q 0 ).
However, then the LHS of (40) evaluated at q = q 00 is strictly smaller than the LHS of (40)
evaluated at q = q 0 , yielding a contradiction with the fact that at the equilibrium (q), (40)
is satis…ed for both q = q 0 and q = q 00 .
    (b) Second, note that due to the same arguments made in substep (a) above, exit (q) is
strictly decreasing in q as q converges q from below.
    (c) Third, I show that exit (q) is strictly decreasing in q if q q and exit (q) > " . Note
that      = 1 by Proposition 3. Therefore, both V and P strictly decrease with q (note that
the latter was shown in the proof of Lemma 7). Also note that letting ~ 1 1 ,

                      exit (q)   =    (1   s) [  V + (1        )P   (1         )V ]
                                 =    (1   s ) (1   ) [P       ~V ]                                    (53)

There are two cases to consider: (I) Suppose ~ 0. Note that as q increases, P and V strictly
decrease. Therefore, (53) strictly decreases in q.
    (II) Suppose ~ > 0. Note that ~ < 1 as well by the de…nition of ~. Hence, ~ 2 (0; 1). By
the proof of Lemma 9, P        ~V is strictly decreasing in q if P     ~V      (1 ~) L . Therefore,
due to (53), exit (q) is strictly decreasing in q if exit (q)        (1    s ) (1   ) (1 ~) L , or
equivalently, exit (q)       " . This concludes the proof of the …rst result (that is, exit (q) is
strictly decreasing with q if exit (q) > " ).
    Second, I show that the equilibrium is unique and is given by
      8
      >
      < 0;                                                        if +            = exit (0)     (1   )b;
q =         B
            +
                ;                                                 if +          ~    exit
                                                                                              B
                                                                                                      (1      )b
      >                                                                                      B+ G
      : B G
         q 2 (0; 1) such that exit (q) = +        + (1      )b; otherwise,
                                                                                                 (54)
This directly follows from the results that (a) exit (q) is strictly decreasing with q if exit (q) >
  " , (b) exit (q) is continuous in q (as noted at the beginning of the proof), (c) all of the
  G activists with good interventions enter (as mentioned at the beginning of the proof), (d)
for a given q, the payo¤ of an activist with a bad intervention from buying a stake and not
intervening is (1       )b (as explained in the proof of Lemma 4), while his payo¤ from buying
a stake and intervening is exit (q) ( +         ) (by de…nition of exit (q)).
    Fourth, note that 0 <         if and only if b < (11 ) exit (0), where 0 < exit (0). Here,
0 < exit (0) holds because 0 < < by assumption. By the de…nition (51) of , this implies
that + (1          )b = exit (0) > 0.
    Fifth, I show that if B > ( HL ) G , then q < +B in equilibrium (which is equivalent
                                                           B   G

to   B <    B , because    G =       G by Lemma 4). Note that          B   >          H
                                                                                      L    G   implies that
0 > 1 ( B L + G H ), which in turn implies that V (q) < 0 if q                        B
                                                                                          . However, since
     F                                                                           B+ G
V (q ) > 0 in equilibrium by Lemma 8, it follows that q < +B .
                                                                   B   G




                                                  66
   Sixth, note that the second and …fth steps together imply that if      B > (
                                                                                  H
                                                                                   L
                                                                                       ) G , then the
equilibrium is unique and given by (19).

Proof of Proposition 7. Note that unless noted otherwise, in almost all of the results
below, the comparative statics of ( B + G )V immediately follow from the comparative statics
of q and V , because G = G by Lemma 4. In the cases where the comparative statics of
( B + G )V does not immediately follow, it is proven explicitly.
     First, note that q <       B
                                     in equilibrium (which is equivalent to B < B , because
                              B+ G

  G = G by Lemma 4) by the …fth step in the proof of Proposition 6, because B > (               ) G
                                                                                             H
                                                                                              L
by assumption.
     Second, I prove part (i). To that end, suppose that +                > . Then, q = 0 by
Proposition 6. Moreover, by steps 1 and 8 in the proof of Proposition 3, in equilibrium (39)
(which is equivalent to (40)) is satis…ed, and also P > M . Note that for a given q, the LHS
in (40) (and hence the LHS in (39) compared to its RHS) is strictly increasing in around
   = , because V ( ; q) is strictly increasing in , and P ( ; q) is also strictly increasing in
when P > M (as shown in the proof of Proposition 1). Therefore, the following arguments
complete the proof for this step: (a) As +          increases, (39) continues to hold for the same
level of . Therefore, does not change (recall by step 2 in the proof of Proposition 3, for any
given q, if there exists any 0 2 [0; 1] that satis…es (39), then = 0 is the unique equilibrium
for q). (b) As s increases, holding =         constant, the LHS in (39) becomes strictly smaller
than the RHS, because the LHS in (39) is positive (this is because exit (0) > 0 by the fourth
step in the proof of Proposition 6). As a result,      strictly increases. (c) If s = l , then as
increases, (40) continues to hold for the same level of . Therefore,        does not change. (d) If
  s > l , then as   increases, the LHS in (40) becomes strictly smaller than the RHS, because
V > 0 by Lemma 8. As a result,           strictly increases. (e) As l increases, the RHS in (39)
becomes strictly smaller than the LHS, because > 0. As a result, strictly decreases. (f) As
   increases, the LHS in (39) becomes strictly larger than the RHS. This is because P < V ,
which in turn holds because > 0 (due to Proposition 3) and

                                                     H    V ( ; q)
                             P ( ; q) =    H                                                    (55)
                                                1    (1   q) (1    )

due to (3) and (9)). As a result,     strictly decreases. (h) As b increases, the RHS in (39)
becomes strictly larger than than the LHS. As a result,      strictly increases.
   Third, letting         exit (q) (1     )b, I prove that < . Note that exit (q) is strictly
decreasing in q if exit (q) 0 (by Proposition 6), and exit (0) > 0 (by the fourth step in the
proof of Proposition 6). Since = exit (0)         (1    )b, this implies that exit (q) < exit (0),
and hence < .
   Fourth, I prove part (iii). To that end, suppose that +            < , where = exit (q)
 (1     )b. Note that Proposition 6 implies that +            + (1       )b = exit (q ) (because
  +     < < ) and q > q (because exit (q) is strictly decreasing in q if exit (q) 0). In


                                                67
turn, q > q implies that = 1 due to Proposition 3. Recall that exit (q) is given by (18). Also
given that      = 1, exit (q) is strictly decreasing in q if exit (q) 0 (by substep (c) of the …rst
step in the proof of Proposition 6), and V ( ; q) = 1 ( B L + G H ) = 1 ( 1 q q G L + G H )
                                                         F                       F
is strictly decreasing in q. Therefore, the following arguments complete the proof for this step:
(a) As +           increases, q strictly decreases such that +           + (1        )b = exit (q ) is
established again. (b) As s increases, holding q constant at q = q , exit (q) strictly decreases
(because exit (q ) > 0). Therefore, q strictly decreases. (c) As increases, holding q constant
at q = q , exit (q) strictly increases, because P < V (for the same reasons explained in
substep (f) of the proof of part (i) above). As a result, q strictly increases. (d) As increases,
holding q constant at q = q , exit (q) strictly increases, because V > 0 by Lemma 8. Therefore,
q strictly increases. (e) As l increases, holding q constant at q = q , exit (q) does not change.
As a result, q does not change either. (f) As b increases, holding q constant at q = q ,
  exit (q) does not change while (1         )b increases. Therefore, q strictly decreases such that
   +       + (1      )b = exit (q ) is established again.
     Fifth, I prove part (ii). To that end, suppose that +             2 ( ; ), that is, +          2
( exit (q)    (1     )b; exit (0)   (1     )b). Note that Proposition 6 implies that +       + (1
  )b = exit (q ) and q 2 (0; q) (where the latter follows because exit (q) is strictly decreasing in
q if exit (q) 0). In turn, 2 (0; 1) due to Proposition 3, and moreover, due to steps 1 and 8
in the proof of Proposition 3, in equilibrium (39) (which is equivalent to (40)) is satis…ed, and
also P > M . Note that for a given q, the LHS in (40) (and hence the LHS in (39) compared
to its RHS) is strictly increasing in around =             due to the same arguments made in the
proof of part (i) above. Moreover, (39) and +            + (1      )b = exit (q ) together imply that

                           +                                             1   c
                                     = (1   l) [   H    (1   )V ]                                (56)
                          (1     )                                   1

has to be satis…ed in equilibrium as well. Therefore, the following arguments complete the
proof for this step:
     (a) As s increases, holding q = q and =           constant, the LHS in (39) strictly decreases
while the RHS remains constant (because the LHS is positive due to exit (q) = +                     +
   (1     )b > 0). Therefore, holding q constant: (I)     strictly increases until (39) is established
again, (II) hence V strictly increases, (III) in turn, the RHS in (39) strictly decreases (and
hence, so does the LHS in (39)), and (IV) hence, exit (q) strictly decreases. Since exit (q)
strictly decreases, it follows that q (and hence B ) strictly decreases. Moreover, V (q ) does
not change, because (56) continues to hold.
     (b) As +        increases, holding q = q constant, does not change, because (39) continues
to hold (recall from step 2 in the proof of Proposition 3 that for any given q, if there exists any
  0
    2 [0; 1] that satis…es (39), then = 0 is the unique equilibrium for q). In turn, this implies
that holding q = q constant, exit (q) does not change and hence becomes strictly smaller than
    +     + (1        )b. Therefore, q strictly decreases such that +        + (1       )b = exit (q )
is established again. Moreover, V (q ) strictly decreases due to (56).


                                                   68
     (c) As increases, holding q = q and =                 constant, the LHS in (40) strictly increases
while the RHS remains constant, because P < V (for the same reasons explained in substep
(f) of the proof of part (i) above). Therefore, holding q constant: (I)          strictly decreases until
(40) is established again, (II) hence V strictly decreases, (III) in turn, the RHS in (39) strictly
increases (and hence, so does the LHS in (39)), and (IV) hence, exit (q) strictly increases. Since
  exit (q) strictly increases, it follows that q (and hence B ) strictly increases. Moreover, V (q )
does not change, because (56) continues to hold.
     (d) As l increases, holding q = q and =               constant, the RHS in (39) strictly decreases
while the LHS remains constant, because > 0. Therefore, holding q constant,                      strictly
decreases until (39) is established again. Note that while q responds as well, this response
cannot reverse the decrease in , since the sole reason of the change in q is the change in
    (because l does not appear in exit (q )). Moreover, V (q ) decreases due to (56). In
addition, I also show that ( G (q ) + B (q ))V (q ) strictly decreases. To see this, there are
two cases to consider: (I) First, suppose that q (and hence B ) weakly increases. Then,
( G (q ) + B (q ))V (q ) = [ G (           H + (1       ) M ) + 1 q q G L ] strictly decreases (because
recall that       strictly decreases as well). (II) Second, suppose that q (and hence B ) strictly
decreases. Then, ( G (q ) + B (q ))V (q ) strictly decreases because both V (q ) and B (q )
strictly decrease, while G (q ) remains constant at G (q ) = G .
     (e) Suppose s = l . As increases, holding q = q constant,                    does not change, be-
cause (39) continues to hold. However, holding q = q constant, even though                      does not
change, exit (q) strictly increases, because V > 0 by Lemma 8. Therefore, q strictly increases
such that +            + (1         )b = exit (q ) is established again. Moreover, (56) implies that
V (q ) strictly increases.
     (f) Suppose s > l . As increases, holding q = q and =                        constant, the LHS in
(40) strictly decreases while the RHS remains constant, because V > 0. Therefore, holding q
constant at q = q : (I) strictly increases until (40) is established again, (II) hence V and P
strictly increase (P strictly increases as shown in the proof of Proposition 1, because P > M
as mentioned previously), and (III) (1           )V strictly decreases. To see why (1        )V strictly
decreases, suppose that it weakly increases at for some = 0 (again, holding q constant).
However, then, this implies that holding q constant, the LHS in (40) gets strictly larger (because
V and P gets strictly larger), while the RHS remains constant, yielding a contradiction with
(40). This establishes that holding q constant, (1             )V strictly decreases, and therefore the
RHS in (39) and in turn the LHS in (39) strictly increases (because they have to be equal).
Therefore, holding q constant at q = q , exit (q) strictly increases. Hence, q strictly increases
such that +            + (1         )b = exit (q ) is established again. Moreover, (56) implies that
V (q ) has to strictly increase as well.
     (g) As b increases, (56) implies that V (q ) does not change.
     Even though the proof of the proposition is complete, in addition I also prove that V
attains its global maximum w.r.t. +               2 [0; 1) at +        = maxf0; g. To that end, note
that exit (q) is continuous w.r.t. q, because           is continuous w.r.t. q by Proposition 3. Since
  exit (q) is also strictly decreasing in q if exit (q) >     " for some " > 0 (as shown in the …rst

                                                   69
step of Proposition 6), this implies that q is continuous and strictly decreasing w.r.t. +
for all +          0 as well. Therefore, V is continuous w.r.t. as well, and combining with
the results in parts (i)-(iii) about and     implies that V attains its global maximum w.r.t.
  +     2 [0; 1) at +           = maxf0; g.



D.1      Supplemental results for Section D
Lemma 8 Suppose that b < +               . Under endogenous entry, in any equilibrium, if there
is a positive measure of activists intervening, then:

  (i) If an activist has not acquired a stake, then he never intervenes.

 (ii) If an activist with a bad intervention acquires a stake in a target and intervenes, then he
      always exits.

(iii) q < 1, that is, if an intervention is implemented, it cannot be a bad intervention with
      probability 1.

(iv)      > 0, that is, if an activist with a good intervention intervenes, he exerts e¤ort with
       positive probability.

 (v) V > 0 and V + (1           )P > 0, where P and V are given by (3) and (9), respectively.

(vi) If an activist has acquired a stake and made a disclosure, then he always intervenes.

Proof of Lemma 8. Throughout the proof, denote by 2 [0; 1] the fraction of activists who
intervene after acquiring and disclosing their stake.
    To see part (i), note that an activist never intervenes if he hasn’t acquired a stake, because
his payo¤ from doing so is negative due to the cost of intervention. Note that an implication
of this result is that    > 0. This is because: (a) a positive measure of activists intervene in
equilibrium, (b) they implement only if they acquire a stake, and (c) when acquiring a stake,
then they have to disclose it if they will intervene.
    To prove part (ii), suppose that with positive probability, an activist with a bad intervention
acquires a stake, intervenes, and keeps his stake. Note that his payo¤ from keeping his stake
after acquiring a stake and intervening is given by

                          f(1    l) [   L   (1   ) V ] + bg     ( +     );                    (57)

where V is given by (9). Note that (57) follows because once the activist discloses his stake, the
market assigns probability that he will intervene, and if the intervention is not implemented,
the market sees this (before the activist can sell his stake) and as a result the share price
becomes Q0 . However, (57) is negative since V        L and b <     +      . In turn, it must be


                                                 70
that this activist’s payo¤ in equilibrium is negative, because when he exits after intervening,
his payo¤ from doing so must be weakly smaller than (57), because he keeps his stake with
positive probability. However, this yields a contradiction, because this activist strictly prefers
not to buy any stake in the target and not to intervene, as this would give the activist a payo¤
of zero (which is strictly larger than (57)).
    Before proceeding to the proof of remaining parts, note that in any equilibrium where
intervention is on-the-equilibrium-path, due to parts (i), (ii), and Lemma 6, the average …rm
value conditional on the exit by the activist following intervention is given by Q0 + P , where
P is given by (3). We also already know that the average …rm value conditional on intervention
is given by Q0 + V , where V is given by (9).
    Next, I prove (iii), that is, q < 1. Recall that q denotes the probability that conditional on
an intervention, it is a bad intervention. Suppose that q = 1. However, then V = P = L ,
and hence the activist with a bad intervention always makes a loss by acquiring a stake and in-
tervening. This is because if he exits, then his payo¤ is (1     s ) [ V + (1    )P     (1    ) V ]
( +      ) ; which is negative, and if he keeps his stake then his payo¤ is given by (57), which
is negative as well. However, then any activist with a bad intervention strictly prefers to not
buy any stake and not to implement his intervention, because this gives him a payo¤ of zero.
However, this yields a contradiction with q = 1.
    Next, I prove part (iv), that is,      > 0. Recall that denotes the probability of activist
exerting e¤ort conditional on intervention being implemented by an activist with a good inter-
vention. Also recall from part (i) that an activist never implements his intervention if he hasn’t
acquired a stake, and note that by Lemma 6, if an activist with a good intervention shirks
(exerts e¤ort), then he always exits (keeps his stake unless hit by a liquidity shock). Then,
for an activist with a good intervention, his expected payo¤ from acquiring a stake, exerting
e¤ort, and intervening is (because he keeps his stake unless hit by a liquidity shock)

                          (1    s) [V + (1    )P         (1  ) V ]                               (58)
                        +(1    ) f(1   l) [ H   (1        ) V ] + bg       c;

Similarly, his expected payo¤ from acquiring a stake, shirking, and intervening is (because then
he always exits)
                          (1    s ) [ V + (1    )P     (1    ) V ]      :                   (59)
To see      > 0, suppose that     = 0. However, then P           M and V     M.   Therefore, (58)
is strictly larger than (59), because
                                                                                         c
  (1    s) [   V + (1    )P     (1     ) V ] < (1     l) [   H    (1   ) V ]+b                    ;
                                                                                    (1       )




                                              71
which is satis…ed because
      c
              b < (1             l)   H          (1       s)       M         ( s       l )(1           )   M        (1   s ) (1   )   M
 (1       )
                     c      (1            ) b
                ,                                <( s             l)        M + (1        l) (         H           M)
                          (1          )

which holds due to c < c (where c is given by (25)). However, since (58) is strictly larger than
(59), any activist with a good intervention strictly prefers to exert e¤ort when implementing
the intervention, yielding a contradiction with = 0.
    Next, I prove that V > 0. Recall from part (i) that an activist never implements his
intervention if he hasn’t acquired a stake. Also note that any activist’s payo¤ from acquiring
a stake, implementing his intervention, and then exiting is

                           (1             s) [   V + (1                )P       (1      ) V ]                 i;                      (60)

(where i denotes the activist’s cost of implementing intervention i 2 fG; Bg, that is,                                            G =
and B = +       ), or equivalently,

                     (1         s ) [(1          (1       )       ) V + (1             ) (P            V )]         i:                (61)

However, if V      0, then (61) is negative because                             < 1,      > 0, q < 1, and P < V (where
the last inequality follows from

                                                                            H      V
                                      P =             H                                            ,
                                                              1    (1        q ) (1            )

which in turn follows from (3) and (9)). In turn, since an activist with a bad intervention
always exits if he implements the intervention (due to part (ii)), (61) being negative implies
that an activist with a bad intervention would strictly prefer not acquiring any stake and
not implementing the intervention over acquiring a stake and implementing the intervention.
Because an activist never implements his intervention if he hasn’t acquired a stake (by part
(i)), this implies that all activists with a bad intervention strictly prefers not to implement
their intervention, implying that q = 0. However, combining this with > 0, then it cannot
be V      0, yielding a contradiction.
    Next, I prove part (vi), that is,       = 1. For any activist that does not implement his
intervention, his payo¤ from acquiring his stake and disclosing is (1        s ) ( (1    ) V )
if the activist exits and (1       l ) ( (1    ) V + b) if he keeps his stake, and his payo¤
from acquiring his stake and not disclosing it is zero if the activist exits and b if he keeps
his stake (note that as also explained above, once the activist discloses his stake, the market
assigns probability that he will implement the intervention, and once the intervention is
not implemented, the market sees this before the activist can sell his stake and as a result,
the share price becomes Q0 ). Since V > 0 and          > 0 (where the latter was explained at

                                                                   72
the end of the proof of part (i) above), it follows that (1          s ) ( (1     ) V ) < 0 and
(1     l ) (  (1    )  V  + b) <   b. Therefore,  the activist strictly  prefers not to disclose his
stake if he will not implement the intervention. As a result,      = 1.
    Finally, I prove that V + (1      )P > 0. Suppose that V + (1             )P     0. Recall from
the proof of V > 0 above that any activist’s payo¤ from acquiring a stake, implementing his
intervention, and then exiting is given by (60), which is negative because V + (1          )P     0,
V > 0, and         > 0. In turn, since an activist with a bad intervention always exits if he
implements the intervention (due to part (ii)), this again implies that all activists with a
bad intervention strictly prefers not to implement their intervention, implying that q = 0.
However, combining this with       > 0, then it cannot be P       0, yielding a contradiction with
V > 0 and V + (1          )P     0.


Lemma 9 For any ~ 2 (0; 1], if q             q and P (q)    ~V (q) > (1      ~)   L , then P    (q)       ~V (q)
strictly decreases w.r.t. q.

Proof of Lemma 9. Note that due to Proposition 3, q                     q implies that      = 1. Hence,

                                    H +q[       L      H]
                   P    ~V =                                 ~f   H +q[      L       H ]g
                                1       (1     q)(1    )

Therefore,

        d (P   ~V )            [    L          H]           H +q[   L         H]
0 >                    ,0>                                                    2 (1
                                                                                )              ~ f[   L      H ]g
            dq             1 (1 q)(1          )  [1 (1 q)(1          )]
           H +q[ L         H]                                 [ L        H]
   ,                        2 (1   ) + ~ f[ L      H ]g >
        [1 (1 q)(1        )]                               1 (1 q)(1         )
   ,   [ H +q[ L           H ]] (1   ) + ~ f[ L     H ]g [1   (1 q)(1       )]2
   >   [ L      H ] (1   (1 q)(1       ))
   ,   ~ f[ L    H ]g [1   (1 q)(1        )]2 > [ L       H ] , ~ [1   (1 q)(1                  )]2 <
                         p
                     1       =~
   ,   q < q0 1                  ;
                       1

where the RHS is strictly larger than 0. Moreover, since P (q) = V (q) = L and hence
P (q) ~V (q) = (1 ~) L if q = 1, this implies that P (q) ~V (q) strictly decreases w.r.t
q if P (q) ~V (q) > (1 ~) L and q q, concluding the proof.




                                                      73
E      Online Appendix for Liquidity (Section 3.4)
As mentioned in Section 3.4, the parameters and in Sections 3.1-3.3 can be more directly
interpreted as the intensity of noise trading, without any change in the formal model. To see
why, suppose that the activist is not required to make any disclosure. Instead, suppose that
there is noise trading. In particular, suppose that at the exit (entry) stage, there are two
possibilities: With probability ( ), the intensity of noise trading is very high, and hence the
market maker cannot make any inference about the activist’s trade from the total order ‡ow.
With probability 1       (1     ), the intensity of noise trading is very low or non-existent, and
hence the market maker can perfectly infer the activist’s trade from the order ‡ow.
    Then, at the time when the activist decides to exert e¤ort or not, he calculates his expected
proceeds from selling his stake at the exit stage as (Q0 + V + (1             )P ), just like in the
                             41
original model of Section 3. Similarly, the activist pays [Q0 + (1           )V ] to buy his stake
if he intends to intervene.42 Importantly, compared to the original interpretation of ( ) in
the model, the activist’s expected payo¤ from selling (buying) remains unchanged. Similarly,
his expected payo¤ from keeping his stake does not change either, since the NPV is perfectly
revealed anyway if he keeps his stake. As a result, under this alternative interpretation of
   and as the intensity of noise trading, the formal results derived in Sections 3.2 and 3.3
continue to hold without any change.



F      Online Appendix for the sign and magnitude of                                                            L
       and M
F.1      Relaxing the assumption                       L <0 <         M to        L <      M

As mentioned in Section 4.2, due to the same reasons as those provided in the analysis, the
main results of the paper continue to hold in the case of L < M < 0, as well as in the case
of 0 < L < M . Below, I …rst provide the intuition and then the technical reasons for this
robustness.
    Speci…cally, this robustness stems from the robustness of the insight that was discussed on
page 16 after Proposition 2 (as well as on page 24 after Proposition 3): “The critical observation
is that the impact of higher probability of e¤ort has more positive impact on the unconditional
average value of the …rm V compared to the stock price conditional on the exit of the activist,
P . This is because upon the exit of the activist, the market correctly assigns a lower probability
  41
     In the paper, these proceeds were calculated in the discussion just before expression (14). Here, recall that
  represents the activist’s stake, Q0 is the value of the …rm in status quo (i.e., in the absence of implementation
of the intervention), V is the expected NPV conditional on implementation of the intervention, and P is the
expected NPV conditional on the activist’s exit decision.
  42
     Again, see the discussion before expression (14).



                                                        74
that the activist has exerted e¤ort, since such an activist does not exit unless he has to.”
    Since the exit price P has to stay constant in the baseline model (Section 2) for the activist
with a good intervention to remain indi¤erent between exerting e¤ort and shirking (given by
the equation (4) in the paper),43 the above insight on page 16 continues with: “Therefore, as
the value-creating activist exerts more e¤ort and the activist’s exit price P reaches its original
level, this higher e¤ort results in even a larger increase in the unconditional …rm value V and
pushes it up beyond its original level. This is how the average …rm value increases with the
likelihood that the activist is implementing a value-destroying project,”where this likelihood is
represented with q.
    Similarly, as long as     < 1, V increases with q in the main model (Section 3) as well, as
explained on page 24: “Importantly, noting that the LHS of (17) is just a weighted sum of V
and P ,”which again needs to remain constant for the activist with a good intervention to stay
indi¤erent between shirking and exerting e¤ort. “Therefore, as q increases and          increases
as a result, for the LHS of (17) to stay constant, it must be that V (q) is strictly increasing
and P (q) is strictly decreasing.” As a result, the main policy implications derived in Section
3 are also robust to the relaxation of L < 0 < M to L < M , as I elaborate below.
    Next, I provide the technical reasons for the robustness of the main results of the paper
to the relaxation of L < 0 < M to L < M . In particular, as mentioned above, this
robustness stems from the proof of Proposition 2, which does not depend on the signs of L
and M (in fact, none of the results or proofs in the baseline model (Section 2) rely on the
signs of L and M ). Importantly, Proposition 2 shows that in the baseline model, V is
strictly increasing in q if q < q (or equivalently, if   < 1) and achieves its unique maximum
at q = q, and the proof of the proposition consists of two steps:

  (i) If q < q, then (1 q) has to strictly increase with q for the exit price P to remain
      constant. Note that here, P has to stay constant for the activist with a good intervention
      to remain indi¤erent between shirking and exerting e¤ort.

 (ii) V strictly increases with q if q < q; because P has to stay constant, and V                 can be
      expressed in terms of P as

                              V =      H    (   H   P ) [1    (1   q) (1       )]:                   (62)
    For the same reasons (i) and (ii) above, in the main model (Section 3), again V is strictly
increasing in q if q < q and achieves its unique maximum at q = q (i.e., Proposition 3 continues
to hold). To see why, note that as mentioned above, a weighted sum of V and P (given
by (17) in the paper) needs to stay constant for the activist with a good intervention to
remain indi¤erent between exerting e¤ort and shirking. Therefore, it has to be that P strictly
decreases w.r.t. q, because if P were to weakly increase w.r.t. q at any q < q, then this would
  43
     The reason why the exit price P has to stay constant is that in the baseline model I assume that the
activist’s exit is fully observable. However, I relax this assumption in Section 3, and as shown in Online
Appendix B of the paper, the results of the baseline model continue to hold.


                                                    75
imply that (1 q) strictly increases,44;45 and hence (62) above (which continues to hold
since it is directly implied by (3) and (9) in the paper) would imply that V strictly increases,
violating (17). In turn, since P strictly decreases w.r.t. q for all q < q, this implies that V
has to strictly increase with q so that the weighted sum of V and P in (17) remains constant.
     As a result, the main policy implications derived in Section 3 (Propositions 4, 5, and 7)
continue to hold as well. The only exceptions are that if 0 < L < M , then Proposition 5
(i.e., the policy implications when there is only adverse selection and no moral hazard) and part
(iii) of Proposition 7 do not hold anymore, because even the activist with a “bad invervention”
creates value due to 0 < L .

F.2     Micro-foundation of the assumption                           L <      M

As also discussed in the second extension in Section 4.1, the model could be generalized by
allowing the activist with a bad intervention to exert e¤ort to increase the value of his inter-
vention. Let us denote the NPV of his intervention as B    H if he exerts e¤ort. Therefore, if the
activist with a bad (good) intervention exerts e¤ort, the NPV increases from L to B        H ( M
to H ).
    Then, the broader version of the question regarding L versus M becomes: How should
the relation between L and M and the relation between B         H and     H be modeled? In turn,
to make the distinction between an activist with a bad intervention and a good intervention,
the most natural parameterization that follows is L < M and B         H <     H.
    However, due to similar reasons discussed in Section 4.1, in the region that produces the
paper’s main results (i.e., the region where q < q), the activist with a bad intervention would
never exert e¤ort, making B    H irrelevant for material outcomes in this region. To see why,
note that the signi…cance of this region is that the activist with a good intervention shirks
with positive probability if and only if q is in this region q < q (i.e., the probability that the
activist’s intervention is bad is not too high). In other words, moral hazard problem of the
activist with a good intervention is binding only in this region, which is why it’s the region
that produces the paper’s main results. This implies that in this region, the activist with a
good intervention is indi¤erent between (a) exerting e¤ort and keeping his stake until the NPV
is revealed unless hit by a liquidity shock, and (b) shirking and selling his stake before the
NPV is revealed. Importantly, the payo¤s of the activist with a good intervention and the
activist with a bad intervention from shirking and selling their stake are the same, because
the NPV is not revealed by then. However, the payo¤ of the activist with a good intervention
  44
     Note that P is strictly increasing in if P           M (as shown in the proof of Proposition 1), where
P > M continues to hold for any q < q in Section 3 as well (as implied by step 2 of the proof of Proposition
3). Note that again, these results do not rely on the signs of M or L .
  45
     Note that again, if q < q, then (1 q) has to strictly increase with q for the exit price P to remain
constant for the same reasons in the proof of Proposition 1. Here, note that P > M continues to hold by
the previous footnote, and in turn, plugging (3) in P > M again implies that the denominator of (23) is
positive.



                                                    76
from exerting e¤ort and keeping his stake until the NPV is revealed is strictly higher than the
payo¤ of the activist with a bad intervention from doing so, because H > B     H (here, I assume
                                 B
that the latter activist’s cost c of exerting e¤ort is weakly higher than the former activist’s
cost, i.e., cB c). As a result, the activist with a bad intervention never exerts e¤ort if q < q.
In fact, there exists q~ > q such that the activist with a bad intervention never exerts e¤ort if
q < q~, because the activist with a good intervention is indi¤erent between exerting e¤ort and
shirking also at q = q.




                                               77
