Corporate Control Activism
Adrian A. Corum
Wharton
Doron Levit
Wharton
August 11, 2016
Abstract
We identify a commitment problem that prevents bidders from unseating resisting
and entrenched incumbent directors of target companies through proxy … ghts. We discuss
potential solutions and argue that activist investors are more resilient to this commitment
problem and can mitigate the resulting ine¢ ciencies by putting such companies into play.
This result holds even if bidders and activists have similar expertise and can use similar
techniques to challenge the incumbents, and it is consistent with the evidence that most
proxy … ghts are launched by activists, not by bidders. Moreover, we show that there
is complementarity between shareholder activism and takeovers: Activists bene… t from
the possibility that companies in which they invest will become a takeover target, while
bidders, who interpret the presence of an activist as a signal that the target is available
for sale, are more likely start takeover negotiations when the target has an activist as a
shareholder. Combined, the analysis sheds light on the interaction between M&A and
shareholder activism.
Keywords: Acquisition, Corporate Governance, Merger, Proxy Fight, Shareholder Ac-
tivism, Takeover.
JEL Classification: D74, D83, G23, G32, G34
For helpful comments, we thank Anat Admati, Lucian Bebchuk, Mitchell Berlin (discussant) Patrick
Bolton (discussant), Alex Edmans, Vyacheslav Fos (discussant), Simon Gervais, Vincent Glode, Itay Goldstein,
Samuel Lee (discussant) Andrey Malenko (discussant), Nadya Malenko, Richmond Mathews (discussant), Gre-
gor Matvos, Ernst Maug (discussant), Christian Opp, Bilge Yilmaz, the participants at the 7th Summer Finance
Conference at the IDC Herzliya, Summer School on Financial Intermediation and Contracting at Washington
University in St. Louis, Ackerman Conference on Corporate Governance 2015, 11th Annual Mid-Atlantic
Research Conference in Finance, Young Scholars Finance Consortium 2016, Third Edinburgh Corporate Fi-
nance Conference in 2016, 2016 FIRS meetings, 2016 WF A meetings, WUSF 2016, and seminar participants
at Wharton, Frankfurt School of Finance & Management, Norwegian School of Economics, Indiana University,
and Harvard Law School. Emails: corum@wharton.upenn.edu and dlevit@wharton.upenn.edu.
1
1 Introduction
The separation of ownership and control in public corporations creates agency con‡ icts between
insiders and shareholders (Berle and Means (1932)). In order to protect their private bene… ts of
control,1 corporate boards can resist takeovers that would otherwise create shareholder value,
for example, by issuing shareholder rights plans (“poison pills” ). With a de facto veto power, 2
the resistance to takeovers can be overcome only if the majority of directors are voted out in
a contested election (“proxy … ght” ). In fact, the power of shareholders to unseat directors is
often used by the courts as the basis for allowing boards to block takeovers in the … rst place
(Gilson (2001)).
Shareholders, however, cannot vote out the incumbent directors unless an alternative slate
is put on the ballot. Empirically, bidders rarely launch a proxy … ght to replace all or part of the
resisting target board. F os (2016) … nds that most proxy … ghts are launched by activist hedge
funds.3 Activists often demand from companies they invest in to sell all or part of their assets
(Brav et al. (2008), Becht et al. (2015)), and if needed, use proxy … ghts to force them to do so.
Greenwood and Schor (2009) and Boyson et al. (2016) … nd that the probability of a takeover
is several times higher if an activist hedge fund is a shareholder of the target. F or example, in
2013, the private-equity … rm KKR acquired Gardner Denver for $3.7 billion after the activist
hedge fund V alueAct Capital accumulated a 5% stake in the company and agitated for its
sale. Commenting on the deal, KKR’ s co-CEO, George Roberts, said: “W e wouldn’ t have
bought Gardner Denver had not an activist shown up.” 4 But, why did KKR need V alueAct
to intervene? Could not KRR complete the buyout without the help of an activist? More
generally, since bidders and activists can use similar techniques to challenge corporate boards
(i.e., proxy … ghts), what is the relative advantage of activists? Do activists complement the
e¤ ort of bidders to acquire companies, or do they compete away bidders’rents?
1Jenter and Lewellen (2015) provide evidence consistent with managers being reluctant to relinquish control
due to career concerns. See also Walkling and Long (1984), Martin and McConnell (1991), Agrawal and
Walkling (1994), Hartzell et al. (2004), and Wulf and Singh (2011)), who show that target CEOs typically
su¤er from poor career prospects following takeovers.
2Under most jurisdictions, including Delaware, merger proposals can be brought to a vote for a shareholder
approval only by the board of directors. Alternatively, tender o¤ers do not require a vote, but they are
vulnerable to poison pills, which can be adopted on short notice and make a takeover virtually impossible.
3While proxy … ghts are also e¤ective as threats, their observed frequency can suggest on their empirical
relevance. Fos (2016) documents 632 proxy … ghts between 2003 and 2012, out of which only 5% were sponsored
by corporations (i.e., potential bidders), 70% by activist hedge funds, and the rest by other shareholders.
4WSJ, 1/5/2013, “Activist Investors Gain in M&A Push.”
2
W e study these questions by analyzing a simple dynamic bargaining model in which the
identity of the target board is endogenized by an interim proxy … ght stage. Initially, a bidder
is negotiating with the incumbent target board. Circumventing the board by making a tender
o¤ er to target shareholders is not feasible. The board, whose private bene… ts of control are
lost if the takeover succeeds, can reject the takeover even if doing so is not in the best interest
of target shareholders. However, if the negotiations fail, a proxy … ght to replace the board
can be initiated either by the bidder or by an activist investor, who is a target shareholder.
Winning a proxy … ght is not trivial, as the challenger must convince the majority of target
shareholders that replacing the incumbents with his nominees is in their best interest. If the
proxy … ght succeeds, the winning team obtains control of the target board, and a second round
of negotiations between the bidder and the newly elected directors takes place. If no proxy
… ght is launched or if the proxy … ght fails, the incumbent board retains control of the target
and can use his veto power to block the takeover inde… nitely. 5
Our … rst result shows that although both bidders and activists can launch a proxy … ght
(and face the same costs of doing so), only activists can e¤ ectively challenge the resistance of
the incumbent directors and facilitate the takeover. This result is consistent with the evidence
that, unlike activists, bidders rarely launch proxy … ghts. The activist’ s relative advantage
stems from their higher credibility when campaigning against the incumbents. T o understand
this observation, which is a novel aspect of our analysis, note that a proxy … ght is not a
referendum on the terms of the takeover, but rather a vote on the composition of the board.
Once the bidder’ s nominees are elected to the board, the bidder, who is the counter-party to the
transaction, will be tempted to abuse his control of the target board, exploit its access to private
information, divert resources, and low-ball the takeover premium. This is the commitment
problem in takeovers. Without a commitment to act in their best interests, target shareholders,
who rationally anticipate this opportunistic behavior, are unlikely to elect the bidder’ s nominees
to the board. By contrast, the activist buys a stake in the target with the expectation that
the … rm will be acquired. Unlike the bidder but similar to other shareholders of the target,
the activist is on the sell-side and has incentives to negotiate the highest takeover premium
possible. Therefore, shareholders trust the activist and are more likely to elect her nominees to
the board, even without a commitment to act in their best interests. By credibly threatening
to run a proxy … ght, the activist can pressure the incumbent to sell the … rm at a fair price.
Making corporate assets available for sale is the added value of activist investors to the market
5The analysis focuses on takeovers, but our results can also be applied to divestitures and assets sales.
3
for corporate control.
Generally, the severity of the bidder’ s commitment problem depends on the legal and eco-
nomic environment in which the bidder and the target operate (e.g., enforcement of … duciary
duties, competition for the target), as well as on actions that bidders can deliberately take
in order to alleviate this problem (e.g., nominating truly independent directors, building rep-
utation). Our analysis suggests that if a bidder happens to run a proxy … ght and win the
support of target shareholders, which is rare in practice, then either target shareholders do not
have rational expectations or the commitment problem is resolved. W e discuss the plausible
“solutions”to the commitment problem and argue that they are either imperfect or costly. W e
also show that even if bidders have the ability to solve their commitment problem (through
either channel), they may not have the incentives to do so - they can be better o¤ by letting
the activist pressure the incumbent to sell the … rm.
Importantly, since activist investors inherently su¤ er from a weaker commitment problem,
their relative advantage in pressuring incumbents to sell is likely to persist even if bidders
can alleviate their own commitment problem. Our argument does not require activists to be
perfectly aligned with other target shareholders; activists may have their own private bene… ts
or su¤ er from short-termism. Our key observation is in relative terms: Since a bidder is a
counter party to the transaction and the activist is not, the con‡ ict of interest between the
bidder and target shareholders is stronger than the con‡ ict they might have with the activist.
Our contribution should therefore be viewed as identifying the bidder’ s commitment problem in
takeovers, discussing the potential solutions, and in particular, highlighting the role of activist
investors in mitigating the ine¢ ciencies caused by the bidder’ s commitment problem. The
fact that most proxy … ghts are launched by activists and not by bidders is consistent with
shareholder activism being the market solution for the bidder’ s commitment problem.
In order to study the implications of activist interventions on the M&A market, we endog-
enize the decision of the activist to become a target shareholder and the decision of the bidder
to engage in takeover negotiations. W e assume that initially the activist builds a position by
trading with a market maker à la Kyle (1985). The bidder, who is uncertain about the syner-
getic value of the acquisition, observes the arrival of the activist (e.g., by tracking 13D … lings)
and then decides whether to perform due diligence and start takeover negotiations with the
target board as described above.
Our second set of results highlights the complementarity between shareholder activism and
takeovers. Activists pro… t from the possibility that companies in which they invest will become
4
a takeover target. At the same time, bidders perform due diligence only if they believe that
the target is available for sale. Activists can leverage their advantage in putting companies
into play and solicit o¤ ers by reassuring bidders that they will face a weaker opposition to the
takeover, if the o¤ er is fair. The ability to solicit deals ampli… es the incentives of the activist
to become a target shareholder in the … rst place.
The complementarity between shareholder activism and takeovers has several implications.
First, a takeover is more likely when the target has an activist as a shareholder. Second, activist
investors not only facilitate takeovers once the o¤ er is on the table, but they can also increase
the likelihood that a company becomes a takeover target in the … rst place. In fact, activists
can a¤ ect corporate control outcomes even if ex-post their threat of running a proxy … ght is not
credible. Third, small regulatory changes, such as easing the access of shareholders to the ballot
or modifying the rules that govern the … ling of 13D schedules, can have an ampli… ed e¤ ect on
the aggregate volume of M&A. F ourth, policies and regulations that exclusively undermine
shareholder activism, such as the legalization of two-tier “anti-activism” poison pills, might
adversely a¤ ect M&A even if “standard pills” that prevent takeovers are already prevalent. 6
Finally, the complementarity between shareholder activism and takeovers also arises when the
activist starts her campaign after the announcement of a takeover but before its closing. The
anticipation that an activist would show up on its own a¤ ects the incentives of bidders to start
takeover negotiations.
Activists invest either because they believe the company is likely to become a takeover
target (“selection e¤ ect” ) or because they can facilitate its takeover (“treatment e¤ ect” ). The
aforementioned empirical literature is somewhat inconclusive about which e¤ ect is in play. W e
provide necessary and su¢ cient conditions under which the treatment e¤ ect exists in equi-
librium. W e show that the model’ s comparative statics is sensitive to the existence of the
treatment e¤ ect. This feature can be used to create identi… cation strategies for empirical re-
search. F or example, if only the selection e¤ ect is in play, the volume of M&A decreases with
the severity of the agency problems in target … rms. This is intuitive, as with more private
bene… ts of control the incumbents are more likely to resist takeover bids. However, when the
treatment e¤ ect is in play, more resistance of incumbents to takeovers can result with a higher
volume of M&A. Intuitively, the resistance to takeovers provides activist investors with more
6In 2014, the Delaware court allowed Sotheby’ s to keep a unique two-tier poison pill that was purposely
meant to block the activist hedge fund Third Point from increasing its ownership in Sotheby’ s above 10%. See
THIRD POINT LLC v. Ruprecht, Del: Court of Chancery 2014.
5
opportunities to pro… t from their ability to put … rms into play, which increases their incentives
to invest in these … rms, and consequently, increases the bene… t of potential bidders from a
takeover. Based on this logic, the treatment e¤ ect can be identi… ed by a positive relationship
between the severity of agency problems in the cross section of target … rms and the likelihood
of a takeover.
W e consider several extensions of the baseline model. First, in management buyouts the
incumbent may be too motivated to sell the … rm, even if the deal compromises shareholder
value. In those cases, activist investors will challenge the deal by using their in‡ uence on target
shareholders to either block the transaction or “force”the bidder to sweeten the bid. In other
words, the activists compete away the rents of bidders from takeovers. Second, if in addition
to pressuring the incumbent board to sell the … rm the activist has the expertise to propose
and execute policies that increase the standalone value of the target, this alternative form
of activism increases (decreases) the probability of a takeover by a third party if the added
value of the activist’ s proposal is relatively small (large). Therefore, non-control activism
can complement corporate control activism. Last, we consider scenarios in which the target
board cannot block the takeover and prevent the bidder from making a tender o¤ er directly to
shareholders. W e show that there is substitution between the ability of bidders to bypass the
target board through tender o¤ ers and the ability and need of activists to unseat the board
through proxy … ghts. In this regard, our model suggests that activists should play a smaller
role in the market for corporate control in jurisdictions in which boards have weaker power to
block deals, such as the U.K. today or the U.S. in the 1980s.
Our paper is related to the literature on takeovers and shareholder activism (for surveys,
see Becht et al. (2003) and Edmans (2014), respectively). Unlike studies in which the bidder is
also a target shareholder (e.g., Shleifer and Vishny (1986), Hirshleifer and Titman (1990), Kyle
and Vila (1991), Burkart (1995), Maug (1998), Singh (1998), and Bulow et al. (1999)), our
analysis emphasizes the bene… t from separating the capacity to disentrench boards from the
capacity to increase … rm value through acquisitions, and implies that collaborations between
activist investors and bidders are likely to fail, as they raise concerns that the activist is in fact
on the buy-side of the transaction. 7 Moreover, di¤ erent from Burkart et al. (2000), Cornelli
and Li (2002), Gomes (2012), and Burkart and Lee (2015), who study the interaction between
7For the same reason, diversi… ed institutional investors, which often own large stakes both on the sell-side
and on the buy-side of the transaction, are unlikely to be e¤ective in exercising corporate control activism,
even if they have the relevant governance expertise. See our discussion in Section 3.3.
6
bidders and target blockholders, we abstract away from the free-rider problem in tender o¤ ers
of Grossman and Hart (1980). Instead, we focus on agency problems in the target … rm and
the ability of the target board to veto the takeover. 8 Our focus on proxy … ghts as the primary
mechanism by which the resistance of the board to a takeover can be overcome relates our paper
to Shleifer and Vishny (1986), Harris and Raviv (1988), Bhattacharya (1997), Maug (1999),
Y¬ lmaz (1999), Bebchuk and Hart (2001), and Gilson and Schwartz (2001), who study proxy
… ghts within and outside the context of takeovers. These papers, however, do not identify the
commitment problem of bidders in takeovers or the ability of activist investors to mitigate its
adverse consequences.
2 Setup of the baseline model
Consider a model with a bidder, an activist investor, passive investors (institutional or retail),
and one public … rm, the target. The target is run by its incumbent board of directors. W e
do not distinguish between the manager and other board members; we treat them as one. W e
normalize the total number of target shares to one. Each share carries one vote. According
to its governance rules, a successful takeover of the target requires at least 50% of its voting
rights. All agents are risk-neutral.
At the outset, the incumbent board ownsn 0 shares of the target, the activist owns> 0
shares, the bidder owns m 0 shares, and all other shares are owned by passive investors. W e
assume that collectively passive investors hold more than 50% of the target voting rights, that
is,n + +m< 0:5.
The incumbent board has private bene… ts of control which are lost if the … rm is acquired
or if shareholders elect a new board. These bene… ts may include excessive salaries, perquisites,
investment in ‘ pet’ projects, access to private information, pleasure of command, prestige,
or publicity. W e assume that compensation contracts cannot fully align the incentives of the
incumbent board with the shareholders (Jenter and Lewellen (2015)), and that the enforcement
of the board’ s … duciary duties is not su¢ ciently strong to eliminate the consumption of these
private bene… ts. W e denote the board’ s private bene… ts byB >0, and its private bene… ts per
share bybB=n.
8Models in which the target board can resist a takeover o¤er have also been studied by Bagnoli et al. (1989),
Baron (1983), Berkovitch and Khanna (1990), Hirshleifer and Titman (1990), Harris and Raviv (1988), and
Ofer and Thakor (1987).
7
The standalone value of the target is q >0. The bidder can create a net value of  > 0
by taking over the target. If the bidder is a strategic acquirer (e.g., a corporation in a related
industry) then  is the net operational or … nancial synergy with the target that results from
the merger of the two companies, and if the bidder is a … nancial acquirer (e.g., a private equity
… rm) then is the net operational improvement from a going private transaction or the net
synergy from a merger with one of its portfolio companies. Parameter  can also include the
bidder’ s private bene… ts from acquiring the target. Under either interpretation, the bidder
cannot increase the standalone value of the target without changing its ownership structure.
T o focus the analysis on agency problems as the key friction, we abstract from information
asymmetries aboutq or  and assume that they are both commonly known. In Appendix C.3
we relax these assumptions, and show that the main results continue to hold and may even get
stronger.9
Unlike the bidder, the activist cannot add value by acquiring the target. Therefore, the
activist does not have incentives (or resources) to make a takeover bid. Moreover, consistent
with Greenwood and Schor (2009) and Becht et al. (2015), who show that the positive abnormal
returns around 13D … lings by activist investors stem mostly from events in which the target
is eventually acquired, we assume that the activist cannot a¤ ect the standalone value of the
target. W e relax this assumption in Section 5.2.
The bidder negotiates with the target board a cash o¤ er to acquire all 1 m target shares
not held by the bidder. The bidder cannot bypass the incumbent board and make a tender
o¤ er directly to target shareholders, possibly because the target board can block these attempts
using poison pills. In Section 5.3 we relax this assumption. As depicted by Figure 1, there are
two rounds of negotiations, indexed by j2fI;IIg, which are separated by a proxy … ght stage.
In each round, the proposer is decided randomly and independently of the other round. With
probabilitys2 (0; 1) the proposer is the target board, and with probability 1 s the proposer
is the bidder. The proposer makes a take-it-or-leave-it o¤ er to the other party. Parameter s
can be interpreted as the bargaining power of the target … rm. 10 W e denote by j the price
per share paid by the bidder under an acquisition agreement that is reached in round j. If an
agreement is reached, it must be approved by a majority of the target shareholders in a vote.
Throughout, at any voting stage, target shareholders play undominated pure strategies. If the
9The existence of private information creates adverse selection and reduces the bidder’ s credibility even
further. However, in spite of this adverse selection, activists can still win proxy … ght and relax the resistance
of incumbents to takeovers.
10 The Nash bargaining protocol can be microfounded using Rubinstein’ s (1982) model of alternating o¤ers.
8
agreement is approved by the majority of shareholders, each shareholder of the target receives
j for each share he owns, and the bidder gets q +   (1 m)j.
If no agreement is reached at the … rst round, or if shareholders vote down a proposed
agreement, the bidder and the activist decide simultaneously whether to run a proxy … ght to
replace the incumbent board.11 The ability (or incentives) to run a proxy … ght is a key feature
that distinguishes the activist from other passive investors. If a proxy … ght is initiated, the
challenger incurs a non-reimbursable private cost  >0, which captures administrative costs
as well as the e¤ ort, time, and money that are needed in order to recruit nominees, coordinate
with other shareholders, and campaign against the incumbent. F or example,  decreases with
the fraction of the … rm that is held by institutional investors or the governance expertise of
the challenger. T arget shareholders then decide whether to vote for the incumbent board or
one of the rival teams. The team that receives the largest number of votes is elected and takes
control of the target board.
shareholders vote
agreement
approve
Proxy fight
1. bidder and activist decide whether to launch a proxy fight
2.shareholderselectdirectors
disagreement
Takeover negotiations­round I
bidder vs.incumbentboard
reject
Firm remains independentFirm is acquired
agreement
approve
disagreement
reject
Takeover negotiations­round II
bidder vs.electedboard
shareholders vote
Figure 1 - Takeover negotiations and proxy … ght
Winning the control of the target board has two implications for the rival team (bidder or
activist). First, it gives the rival the right to negotiate on behalf of the target shareholders
an acquisition agreement with the bidder in the second round. That is, the newly elected
11 We implicitly assume that the majority of directors stand for reelection. In 2013, only 11% of the S&P 500
companies had a classi… ed board, down from 57% in 2003 (see sharkrepellent.net: “Governance Activists Set
Their Sights on Net‡ ix’ s Annual Meeting” and “2003 Year End Review” .) Alternatively, winning a short slate
proxy … ght is su¢ cient to change the dynamic in the board and the ability of the incumbents to protect their
private bene… ts of control. See Bebchuk et al. (2002) for a discussion on staggered board.
9
directors can redeem the poison pill, if such exists, and resume negotiations. 12 Second, the
rival takes control of the operations of the target, and among other things, it can divert corpo-
rate resources as private bene… ts if the … rm remains independent, for example, by exploiting
the privileged access as a board member to the target’ s proprietary information or through
self-dealing transactions.13 W e assume that the amount that can be diverted is limited and
arbitrarily small. This assumption, which we relax in Appendix C.4, guarantees that if share-
holders are indi¤ erent between electing the rival (the bidder or the activist) and retaining the
incumbent, they will choose the latter. Importantly, both the bidder and the activist cannot
commit to act in the best interests of target shareholders once they obtain control of the board.
Under this assumption, the newly elected directors maximize the value of the party with which
they are a¢ liated, even if it con‡ icts with maximizing target shareholder value. In other words,
agency problems matter.14
Once the proxy … ght stage ends, a second round of negotiations between the bidder and the
target board (which may now be populated with the newly elected directors) takes place. The
second round has the same protocol as the … rst round. However, if no agreement is reached
or shareholders reject the deal, the target remains independent and its standalone value is
realized.
3 The commitment problem in takeovers
W e start this section by solving the equilibrium of the model and identifying the bidder’ s
commitment problem in takeovers. W e then discuss the di¤ erent ways by which the bidder can
alleviate or overcome this problem, and conclude by highlighting the role of activist investors
in mitigating the ine¢ ciencies caused by the bidder’ s commitment problem.
3.1 Analysis
W e consider the set of Subgame Perfect Equilibria in pure strategies and solve the game
backward. All proofs and results not in the main text are given in Appendix A and the Online
12 Provisions that make pills nonredeemable are illegal in most states, including New York and Delaware.
13 See Atanasov et al. (2014) for a discussion on the various forms of tunneling, and Atanasov et al. (2010),
Bates et al. (2006), and Gordon et al. (2004) for evidence on tunneling in the U.S.
14 In Section B.3 we analyze the model under the assumption that the bidder can commit to act in the best
interests of target shareholders, and calculate the value for the bidder from this commitment.
10
Appendix. W e start by characterizing the second round of negotiations.
Lemma 1 In the second round of negotiations, the target is acquired by the bidder unless the
incumbent board retains control and 
1 m <b . The expected shareholder value is
SH =
8
>>><
>>>:
q + 1fb 
1 mg

s 
1 m + (1 s)b

if the incumbent board retains control,
q +s 
1 m if the activist controls the board,
q if the bidder controls the board.
(1)
Several observations follow from Lemma 1. First, if reelected, the incumbent board can
block the takeover. Therefore, he would accept a takeover o¤ er only if the premium is higher
thanb, his private bene… ts of control per share. The bidder’ s net pro… t if he pays  for each
of the 1 m target shares is q (1 m) +   (1 m). Therefore, if b 
1 m , the bidder
can a¤ ord to pay a premium of b, even if it means sacri… cing the pro… t on his toehold. In this
case, the entrenchment of the incumbent bene… ts target shareholders (at least ex-post) since it
forces the bidder to o¤ er a higher premium without endangering the deal. However, if 
1 m <b ,
the bidder would rather walk away from the negotiations. In this case, the entrenchment of
the incumbent board results with an ine¢ cient outcome which is at the core of our analysis: a
value-increasing takeover is rejected.15
Second, if the activist is elected to the board, the activist would negotiate a “fair” deal in
which the bidder pays an expected premium of s 
1 m . Indeed, the bidder would o¤ er the lowest
price that is acceptable to the activist and target shareholders, which is the standalone value
of the target q. On the other hand, since  0, the activist has incentives to maximize the
value of her holdings, and therefore, she would ask for q + 
1 m , the highest price the bidder
would agree to pay for the target.
Third, if the bidder wins the proxy … ght, he gains the authority to negotiate on behalf
of target shareholders. Hence, the bidder sits on both sides of the negotiating table! Unlike
the activist, the bidder is interested in acquiring the target for the lowest price possible (and
perhaps diverting corporate resources). Therefore, regardless of the proposer’ s identity, the
bidder would be tempted to o¤ er target shareholders their reservation price, which is q. This
is the bidder’ s commitment problem in takeovers. T arget shareholders rationally expect the
bidder, who is a counter party to the transaction, to abuse the power of the board. Therefore,
15 If n< (1 m)B= and B < then 
1 m <b , and a takeover is the e¢ cient outcome.
11
they do not elect him to their board. Since running a proxy … ght is both costly and ine¢ cacious,
the bidder does not run a proxy … ght in any equilibrium of the subgame. This result holds
regardless of the gains from the takeover, , the cost of running a proxy … ght, , the size of
the bidder’ s toehold,m, the incumbent board’ s private bene… ts of control,b, and whether or
not the activist is also running a proxy … ght.
Proposition 1 Suppose the … rst round of negotiations fails. Then:
(i) The bidder never runs a proxy … ght.
(ii) The activist runs a proxy … ght if and only if
=s
  
1 m <b: (2)
Whenever the activist runs a proxy … ght, she wins.
Proposition 1 establishes our result that although both bidders and activists can launch
a proxy … ght and face the same costs of doing so, only activists can e¤ ectively challenge the
resistance of incumbent directors and facilitate the takeover. Unlike the bidder, shareholders
expect the activist to negotiate a premium of s 
1 m if they elect her to the board. Being on the
sell-side gives the activist an advantage relative to the bidder when campaigning against the
incumbent. Nevertheless, shareholders elect the activist only if she is expected to outperform
the incumbent. If the incumbent is reelected, he negotiates a premium of s 
1 m + (1 s)b if
b 
1 m and blocks the takeover otherwise. Therefore, shareholders elect the activist only if
b> 
1 m , i.e., when the bidder cannot overcome the resistance of the incumbent by increasing
the takeover premium. The activist, however, does not necessarily start a proxy … ght even if
she expects to win one. If the activist does not challenge the incumbent, the target remains
independent and the value of her stake remains q. If the activist runs a proxy … ght, the value
of her stake increases to 
 
q +s 
1 m

. The activist runs a proxy … ght if the increase in the
value of her stake is higher than the cost of running a proxy … ght, which holds if and only
if =s
  
1 m . As expected, the activist is more likely to run a proxy … ght when the target’ s
bargaining power is strong, the number of shares owned by the activist is large, and the cost
of running a proxy … ght is low. Condition (2) is the intersection of the activist’ s incentives to
run a proxy … ght and the shareholders’incentives to support her in the challenge.
12
Proposition 2 A unique equilibrium exists and has the following properties:
(i) If minfb; =s
g 
1 m then the bidder reaches an agreement in the … rst round of negotia-
tions with the incumbent board in which the bidder pays
 =q +s 
1 m + (1 s)b 1f 
1 mbg (3)
per share and acquires full control of the target.
(ii) If 
1 m < minfb; =s
g then the target remains independent.
Proposition 2 describes the equilibrium of the game. If b 
1 m then regardless of the
size of the activist’ s stake in the target, the bidder reaches an agreement with the incumbent
board in the … rst round in which he pays q +s 
1 m + (1 s)b. However, if =s
  
1 m < b
then all parties involved correctly anticipate that if the … rst round of negotiations fails, the
activist would run and win a proxy … ght, and then negotiate an acquisition agreement with an
expected premium of s 
1 m . Since the activist’ s threat of running a proxy … ght is credible, any
… rst round o¤ er belowq +s 
1 m is rejected by shareholders, and any o¤ er above q +s 
1 m is
rejected by the bidder. The incumbent board understands that the takeover is inevitable, and
therefore accepts any o¤ er higher thanq +s 
1 m in order to avoid the adverse consequences of
losing the proxy … ght (e.g., embarrassment or the loss of reputation). As a result, the bidder
reaches an agreement with the incumbent board in the … rst round in which he pays q +s 
1 m .
In all other cases, the incumbent board’ s entrenchment is too high ( 
1 m < b) and the threat
of a proxy … ght is not credible ( 
1 m < =s
 ). Therefore, the incumbent retains control of the
board and successfully blocks the takeover.
3.2 Overcoming the commitment problem
The bidder’ s commitment problem stems from the assumption that the newly elected directors
maximize the value of the party with which they are a¢ liated (i.e., the bidding … rm) rather than
the value of target shareholders. Our analysis suggests that if a bidder runs a proxy … ght and
wins the support of the target shareholders, which is rare in practice, then either shareholders
do not have rational expectations or the commitment problem is resolved. 16 In practice, the
16 Our analysis does not imply that if a bidder wins a proxy … ght, the o¤ered takeover premium should drop.
If the bidder believes that he can win a proxy … ght and capture the target board even without resolving the
13
severity of the commitment problem depends on the legal and economic environment in which
the bidder and the target operate, as well as on actions that the bidder can deliberately take
in order to alleviate this problem. However, each of these “solutions” , which we discuss in
detail below, is likely to be either imperfect or costly, and the extent to which bidders use
these “solutions” is an empirical question. In fact, in Appendix B.3 we show that even if
bidders have the ability to solve their commitment problem (through either channel), they
may not have the incentives to do so - they can be better o¤ by letting the activist pressure
the incumbent to sell the … rm.
3.2.1 Legal environment
E¤ ective and strong investor protection laws can help shareholders enforce directors’… duciary
duties, thereby committing the bidder not to abuse the power of the target board if it is given to
him. F or example, when evaluating whether directors have complied with their … duciary duties
in the context of M&A transactions, the Delaware court is likely to apply a stricter standard of
review (Entire fairness rather than Business judgment) if a priori there is a particular concern
that the target’ s directors are con‡ icted with their shareholders. However, there is no guarantee
that the courts or regulators would be able to tell apart related-party transactions that make
economic sense from those which do not. Indeed, litigation and enforcement are often costly,
uncertain, and limited to veri… able outcomes. In practice, there is a considerable variation in
how di¤ erent countries cope with corporate self-dealing (e.g., Djankov et al. 2008), suggesting
that a perfect solution may not exist.
3.2.2 Competition
Competition for the target … rm (whenever exists) can also limit the bidder’ s ability to expro-
priate target shareholders. Low-balling the takeover premium while a superior competing bid
is outstanding can be challenging (e.g., the Revlon Rule under the Delaware corporate law).
Y et, by controlling the target board, the bidder can still exploit his access to the target’ s pri-
vate information and divert resources, thereby deterring competition. In fact, due to a bidder’ s
commitment problem, perhaps because target shareholders are naive, he would low-ball the takeover premium
in advance, anticipating his ability to abuse the power of the target board once it is given to him. If the bidder
expects to capture the target board since he has already resolved his commitment problem, then by de… nition,
the bidder cannot low-ball the takeover premium after winning a proxy … ght. See Appendix B.1 for more
details.
14
privileged access to the target’ s private information, the competitors are likely to su¤ er from
the winner curse. Overall, the commitment problem is likely to be weaker when there are
competing bids for the target, although the problem cannot be entirely resolved.
3.2.3 Recruiting independent nominees
The bidder might consider recruiting independent nominees to represent him on the target
board. However, … nding “truly independent”nominees that are willing to represent the bidder
not only requires time and e¤ ort, but may also be expensive as these individuals, if are truly
independent, are likely to charge a higher compensation. Moreover, these nominees may also
be vulnerable to side payments from the bidder. If the bidder can o¤ er compensation con-
tracts (explicit or implicit) that are unobserved by target shareholders, he will be tempted to
incentivize the nominees to maximize the bidding … rm value rather than the target … rm value.
T arget shareholders are likely to remain suspicious.
3.2.4 Reputation
Serial acquirers or private equity funds, who repeatedly interact in the market for corporate
control, might be able to develop reputation for not expropriating target shareholders. How-
ever, building and maintaining good reputation is costly (i.e., avoiding the temptation to
extract value today), it depends on the presence of public histories of past outcomes, and it
can create unintended distortions. Our analysis suggests that repeated bidders will su¤ er from
the commitment problem, but to a lesser extent than one-time players.
3.2.5 Increasing the target’ s standalone value
The commitment problem arises in our setup since the bidder cannot (or has no incentives to)
create value unless he acquires more than 50% of the voting rights of the target. F or example,
a strategic bidder can realize the synergy only if the target is merged into the acquiring … rm,
and a private equity fund can execute the operational improvements only if the … rm is taken
private, insulating it from public markets. However, activist hedge funds, as well as other
… nancial buyers, may have the expertise and incentives to propose and execute operational,
… nancial, or governance related policies that increase the standalone value of the target, even
if its ownership structure does not change. W e show in Appendix B.2 that bidders who can
increase the standalone value of the target are more resilient to the commitment problem in
15
takeovers. Intuitively, while the bidder may be tempted to low-ball the takeover o¤ er once she
gets control of the target board, these attempts are doomed to fail since target shareholders
know that if they reject the o¤ er, the bidder will inevitably implement the value-increasing
proposal in order to maximize the value of his own stake in the target. Therefore, shareholders
would not fear electing the bidder to the board in those cases. Nevertheless, the bidder can
still abuse the power of the board to tunnel assets or extract value by other means, which may
be of a particular concern if the bidder is a corporation in a related industry. In this respect,
… nancial buyers such as activist hedge funds are more resilient than strategic buyers to the
commitment problem in takeovers.17
3.2.6 Proxy … ght combined with a tender o¤ er
In the U.S., the bidder can run a proxy … ght and at the same time make a tender o¤ er that
remains pending until after the director elections. However, the bidder can amend the terms
of the tender o¤ er without restriction, at least as long as any of the conditions to the tender
o¤ er remains unsatis… ed.18 Even if the bidder can commit not to revise the tender o¤ er, by
doing so, he is exposed to the free-rider problem of Grossman and Hart (1980), which is costly.
Bebchuk and Hart (2001) propose amending the existing rules governing mergers to allow
acquirers to bring a merger proposal directly to a shareholder vote without the approval of the
board of directors. Under the proposed rules, the bidder can e¤ ectively commit to a certain
acquisition price. Our analysis suggests that if a proposal of this nature is adopted, then the
role of activist investors in the M&A market would be diminished.
3.3 The market solution: Corporate control activism
Our analysis highlights the role of activist investors in mitigating the ine¢ ciencies caused by the
bidder’ s commitment problem. The fact that most proxy … ghts are launched by activists, not
by bidders, is consistent with shareholder activism being the market solution for the bidder’ s
commitment problem.
The activist can put pressure on the incumbent only if target shareholders trust her to
17 Consistent with this argument, Boyson et al. (2016) … nd that in 15% of the events in their sample the
activist is also making a takeover bid to the target company.
18 Since the tender o¤er is made prior to the proxy … ght, typically it has a condition that the o¤er is valid
only if the poison pill is redeemed. Therefore, the newly elected directors can always choose not to redeem the
pill, thereby paving the way for the bidder to revise the o¤er.
16
act in their best interests if they elect her to the board. But can target shareholders trust
an activist? Our argument does not depend on a perfect alignment of interests between the
activist and other target shareholders. Importantly, it is the credibility of the activist relative
to the bidder’ s, rather than its absolute level, that is at the core of our argument. In other
words, it is only required that the activist has a higher credibility than the bidder and that
the activist would resist the takeover to a lesser extent than the incumbent. In Appendix C.4
we show that the main results continue to hold even if the activist is expected to divert a
non-trivial amount of corporate resources once elected to the board, or if she is biased toward
selling the … rm (e.g., because of short-termism or impatience).
Activists maintain their relative advantage in our model even if side-payments are possible.
With side-payments, the bidder can compensate (i.e., bribe) the board for the loss of private
bene… ts of control if such exist, and thereby overcome the resistance to the takeover without
paying target shareholder a high premium. However, side-payments are illegal, they cannot
be contracted or formalized, and they must be kept out of sight. They require pushing en-
velopes underneath the table, explicit communications, or tacit agreements of future favours or
transfers, all of which entail the risk of being spotlighted, and hence, can result with destroyed
reputation, litigation, and signi… cant penalties or even jail time for all parties involved. When
the bidder controls the board, it is often the same person who makes decisions on behalf of
the bidder and target shareholders. In this case, no physical transfers or communications have
to take place, and so the risk of anyone … nding a “smoking gun” that can be used in courts
as evidence for misconduct is small. However, this risk is much higher when the bidder has to
bribe a third party, such as an activist investor, with whom the bidder does not necessarily have
tight and close relationship. 19 Since side-payments are riskier when the activist controls the
board, they are less expected. 20 Therefore, target shareholders are likely to be more suspicious
about the bidder’ s motives than the activist’ s.
19 Even if the representative of the bidding … rm on the target board is not the same person as the CEO of
the bidding … rm (or of whoever controls it), that person is likely to have a tighter relationship with the bidding
… rm (e.g., employment) than a third party such as an activist investor has, and therefore, tacit collusion is
more likely when the bidder has the control of the board.
20 A similar argument can be made against the attractiveness of o¤ering side-payments to the incumbent
board. However, as long as side-payments impose risks and costs on the parties involved, the incumbent’ s
resistance to the takeover (resulting from his private bene… ts) is harder to overcome, in which case, a deal is
more likely when the target board is controlled by the activist.
17
3.3.1 When might corporate control activism be ine¤ ective?
The relative advantage of activists when campaigning against the incumbents crucially depends
on the belief of target shareholders that, unlike the bidder, the activist is truly on their side of
the negotiating table. W e discuss special situations in which target shareholders are likely to
be suspicious about the activist’ s motives.
Collaborations between activist investors and bidders Our analysis implies that the
resistance of incumbents to takeovers can be overcome only if the capacity to disentrench
the board is separated from the capacity to increase value through acquisitions, and hence,
collaborations between activist investors and bidders are likely to fail. As an example, consider
the unsolicited bid of V aleant for Allergan in 2014. V aleant teamed up with the activist hedge
fund Pershing Square, with the intention that the latter would build a toehold in Allergan and
push for its sale to V aleant. The sophisticated maneuver failed. Our analysis suggests that by
teaming up with V aleant, Pershing Square lost its credibility (with respect to V aleant’ s bid)
since shareholders of Allergan could not trust Pershing Square to act in their best interests
(rather than in V aleant’ s) once elected to the board. Without the trust of the shareholders of
Allergan, Pershing Square was as ine¤ ective as V aleant in pressuring the Allergan’ s board to
accept V aleant’ s o¤ er.21
Diversi… ed investors Our analysis suggests that large institutional investors with diversi… ed
portfolios (e.g., V anguard, Fidelity, State Street, and BlackRock) are unlikely to play an active
role in takeovers, at least when the bidder is a public corporation. Matvos and Ostrovsky
(2008) and Harford et al. (2011) … nd that in many cases large target shareholders also hold
large positions in the acquiring … rm. With ownership on both sides of the transaction, these
investors lack the credibility that pure sell-side investors would have. Since the ability to win
a proxy … ght crucially depends on the credibility of the challenger, these investors are unlikely
to be e¤ ective in relaxing the opposition of the board to the takeover, even if they own large
stakes in the target and have the relevant governance expertise.
Empty voting In practice, hedge funds can decouple voting and cash-‡ ow rights in common
equity through the use of derivatives to hedge the cash-‡ ow risk. Such decoupling can give rise
21 Allergan was eventually acquired by Actavis, however, from the perspective of Valeant, the takeover attempt
failed. See NYT, 11/18/2014, “The Flaws in Valeant’ s Activist Deal E¤ort” .
18
to the opposite preferences when voting for merger from the preferences of unhedged common
equity holders (Hu and Black (2006, 2007) and Kahan and Rock (2007)). In principle, this
practice can undermine the credibility of the activist when campaigning against the incumbent.
However, according to SEC Rule 14a-9, omitting or making false and misleading statements
of material fact in connection with any solicitation of proxies is prohibited. In particular, the
activist would be required to disclose her net economic exposure to the target and the bidding
… rm (in the context of a takeover). Either way, Collin-Dufresne et al. (2016) document that
activist investors rarely trade derivatives, putting into question the extent of empty voting as
a common practice used by activists.
4 Activist’ s position building and deal solicitation
Given the role of activist investors in mitigating the ine¢ ciencies caused by the bidder’ s com-
mitment problem in takeovers, it is important to study the implications of interventions by
activists on the M&A market. F or this purpose, we extend the model in Section 2 by endog-
enizing the initial decision of the activist to become a target shareholder and the decision of
the bidder to engage in takeover negotiations. W e maintain the assumption that the bidder
cannot commit to act in the best interests of the target shareholders once elected to the board.
4.1 Modi… ed setup
Suppose that  is initially unknown and let 2f 0; 1g be a random variable with a common
prior Pr [ = 1] =  2 (0; 1). If  = 0 then the … rm is not a viable target and   0
with certainty. If  = 1 then the acquisition can create value and Pr [> 0j = 1] > 0. The
cumulative distribution function of conditional on = 1 is given byF , which is di¤ erentiable
and has full support over the real line. W e assume that E [j = 1] 0. Intuitively, … nding
a corporate asset with which the bidder can create synergies is hard. 22 This assumption
guarantees that the bidder will not acquire the target without … rst performing due diligence,
as we specify below.
The bidder and the activist are endowed with private information about . The bidder
perfectly observes  while the activist receives a private signal y2f 0; 1g with precision 2
22 The integration of companies often distracts management and employees, increases uncertainty, and requires
additional compliance with regulation, all of which are detrimental to … rm value, i.e., < 0.
19
(0; 1] where
Pr [y = 1j] =
(
1 if = 1
1  if = 0:
(4)
If y = 0 then the activist infers with certainty that  = 0 , and if y = 1 then the activist
updates her beliefs about  = 1 from to ^ 
1 (1 ) .
At the outset, the bidder and the activist do not own shares of the target. The activist
privately observes signal y and submits an order to buy  0 shares from a risk-neutral and
competitive market maker. Short sales are not allowed. The share price p is set equal to the
expected value of the target conditional on the total order ‡ ows for the … rm, denoted by z.
The market maker cannot distinguish between orders that are generated by the activist or by
liquidity traders. With probability 1
2 liquidity traders submit an order to buyL2 (0; 1
2) shares,
and with probability 1
2 they do not trade. W e assume that purchasing up to 2L shares does
not trigger a poison pill if such exists, and the activist cannot buy more than 2L shares of the
target, because of either wealth constraints or the concern of triggering a poison pill. After
trading, the activist’ s ownership in the target becomes public (e.g., by … ling schedule 13D). The
bidder observes and, and then decides whether to perform due diligence. Speci… cally, the
bidder can payc and learn the exact value of . The cost c, which is privately observed by the
bidder, is drawn from a continuous cumulative distribution G with full support on [0;1) and
is independent of all other random variables. 23 F or simplicity, we abstract from the bidder’ s
decision to build a toehold and assume m = 0. If the bidder performs due diligence, then 
becomes public and the takeover negotiations unfold as in the baseline model.
4.2 Analysis
W e solve for the Perfect Bayesian Equilibria of the extended model. Consider … rst the decision
of the bidder to perform due diligence. Since the takeover on average does not create value,
the bidder never acquires the target without … rst performing due diligence, irrespective of the
activist’ s position in the target. If the bidder has performed due diligence, his expected pro… t
is given by the following corollary of Proposition 2.
Corollary 1 Suppose the bidder performed due diligence and the activist owns  target shares.
Conditional on , the expected shareholder value is q +v (), the bidder’ s expected pro… t is
23 The assumptions on the bidder’ s due diligence technology are made for simplicity. The main results continue
to hold if instead the cost is c (), where c0;c00 > 0 and  is the probability the bidder learns .
20
 (w() v()), and the expected value created by the takeover is w (), where
v () =
Z 1
b
[s + (1 s)b]dF () +
Z b
minfb;=s
 g
sdF () (5)
and
w () =
Z 1
minfb;=s
 g
dF (): (6)
All three terms strictly increase in  when =s
 <b and are invariant to  otherwise.
Based on Corollary 1, if the bidder performed due diligence his expected net pro… t condi-
tional on  and is (w() v()) c. As a result, if the activist owns  target shares then
the bidder performs due diligence if and only if  = 1 and c < w() v(). The expected
takeover premium conditional on  = 1 and is given by
h ()G(w () v ())v(): (7)
As we explain below, both w() v() and v() increase in , and therefore, the incentives
of the bidder to perform due diligence and the expected takeover premium increase with the
size of the activist’ s stake in the target. 24
Let  (y) be the number of shares bought by the activist in equilibrium as a function of
her private signal. If y = 0 then the activist expects any takeover attempt to fail and she does
not invest in the target. If y = 1 and the activist owns  target shares then her expected pro… t
is
 () =

q + ^h ()  p () +p ( +L)
2

: (8)
Generally, the activist’ s informational advantage stems from knowing whether the … rm is likely
to be a viable target and the fact she is becoming a target shareholder. The latter matters
not only because the activist can pressure the incumbent board to accept a future takeover
bid, but also because the anticipation of this pressure increases the incentives of the bidder to
perform due diligence of the target. In other words, the activist can a¤ ect the takeover process
even if ex-post her threat of running a proxy … ght is not credible. Based on Proposition 1,
24 The analysis in the previous section microfounded h (), the e¤ect of the activist on … rm value. However,
the results in this section continue to hold even if h () stems from a di¤erent microfoundation, as long as
h () is an increasing function. See Back et al. (2016) for a dynamic model of shareholder activism where the
mapping from activist’ s ownership to … rm value is exogenous.
21
the activist’ s threat of running a proxy would be credible with a positive probability if and
only if =s
(1) < b. In equilibrium, the market maker sets the target share price equal to its
standalone value plus the expected takeover premium, accounting for the potential e¤ ect of
the activist on the takeover. In turn, the activist tries to disguise her trade as a liquidity
and uninformed demand, and generally conceals the exact number of shares she buys from
the market maker. These considerations a¤ ect the number of target shares that the activist
purchases, and consequently, her ability to a¤ ect the takeover in equilibrium. 25
Proposition 3 In any equilibrium,  (0) = 0 and the bidder performs due diligence if and
only if  = 1 and c < w( (1)) v( (1)). Given  and  (y), the takeover negotiations
unfold as described by Proposition 2. Moreover,
(i) An equilibrium in which  (1) = 0 exists if and only if
2  
^
h (0)
h (L) h (2L)
h (L) : (9)
The target share price is given by p (z) =q +h (0) for z2f 0;Lg.26
(ii) An equilibrium in which  (1) > 0 is unique and it exists if and only if h(2L)
h(L) < 2. In
this equilibrium,  (1) = 2L with probability 2 [0; 1) and  (1) = L with probability
1 ; where
 = 1 + ^
2 
vuut

1 + ^
2
2
  2^
 max
(
0;
h(2L)
h(L)  1  1
2
^ 
^
h(2L)
h(L)  1
)
: (10)
25 We impose two restrictions on the Perfect Bayesian equilibrium. First, if in equilibrium  > 0 then the
activist’ s expected pro… t (conditional on her private information) must be strictly positive. Intuitively, the
activist would exercise her outside option if she cannot make a pro… t on her investment. Second, the market
maker’ s o¤-equilibrium beliefs conditional on order ‡ ow z are bounded from above by the highest value that
the activist would ascribe to the … rm, which is obtained when y = 1 and  = minfz; 2Lg.
26 The o¤-equilibrium beliefs that support the equilibrium are described in the proof in the Appendix.
22
The target share price is given by
p (z) =q + ^
8
>>>>>><
>>>>>>:
0 if z = 0
1 
^= h (L) if z =L
(1 )h(L) +h (2L) if z = 2L
h (2L) if z = 3L and > 0:
(11)
Proposition 3 has several interesting implications. First, if h(2L)
h(L)  2 then there is no
equilibrium in which the activist becomes a target shareholder. Since h(2L)
h(L)  2 implies =s
2L <b
(and sometimes =s
L <b ), the activist could build a position and pressure the incumbent to sell
the target, but she chooses not to. Why? When h(2L)
h(L)  2 the marginal e¤ ect of increasing the
activist’ s position on the expected takeover premium is very large. Unless it is fully priced, the
activist cannot avoid the temptation of buying 2L target shares and using them to facilitate a
takeover. However, the market maker realizes this temptation and prices the shares accordingly,
leaving the activist with no pro… t in equilibrium. Without a pro… t, the activist refrains from
investing in the target.
Can the activist ever pro… t from buying 2L shares in equilibrium? After all, the liquidity
demand is either L or zero. While buying 2L shares fully reveals that the activist is becoming
a target shareholder and her private information about , the market maker cannot infer the
exact number of shares that the activist purchased. This latter piece of private information,
which is the source of the activist’ s pro… t, is valuable only if the activist can exert more pressure
on the incumbent by increasing the size of her stake from L to 2L. According to Proposition
3, there is an equilibrium in which the activist buys 2L shares with a positive probability (i.e.,
2 (0; 1)) if and only if 1 + 1
2
^ 
^ < h(2L)
h(L) < 2. That is, the marginal e¤ ect of the activist’ s
stake on the expected takeover premium must be moderate.
Generally, when h(2L)
h(L) < 2 the equilibrium exhibits either a “selection e¤ ect” , a “treatment
e¤ ect” , or both. Under the selection e¤ ect, the activist’ s threat of running a proxy … ght is
not credible, that is, =s
(1) b. Since the activist has no informational advantage relative to
the bidder, she cannot a¤ ect his decision to perform due diligence by sharing her information
either. However, since  > 0, the activist has incentives to speculate: Knowing the … rm is
likely to be a target when y = 1 gives the activist informational advantage (relative to the
market maker) that makes the purchase of shares a pro… table investment. In these cases, the
23
activist invests in … rms that are likely to be targets, but her investment has no real e¤ ect.
Under the treatment e¤ ect, the activist invests in … rms that are likely to be targets, and
by doing so, she increases the probability of a takeover. There are two e¤ ects. First, if
=s
(1) < < bthen the activist can e¤ ectively pressure the incumbent to accept an o¤ er that
he would otherwise reject. Second, if =s
(1) < b, regardless of the value of , the activist
increases the likelihood that a takeover o¤ er is made by soliciting a deal: The presence of the
activist as a target shareholder signals the bidder that the incumbent is likely to be pressured
by its shareholders to sell the … rm, and therefore, the bidder has stronger incentives to perform
due diligence and start takeover negotiations. W e call this ex-ante e¤ ect the solicitation e¤ect.
Interestingly, the solicitation e¤ ect increases the value of the activist’ s private information
of her being a shareholder of the target, and thereby increases her incentives to become a
shareholder in the … rst place. Due to this feedback, small changes to the environment can
have a large e¤ ect on the equilibrium. F or example, a small decrease in  (e.g., a change in
regulation that eases the proxy access) can have an ampli… ed positive e¤ ect on the probability
that the activist becomes a shareholder of the target and the probability of a takeover. Related,
policies that undermine shareholder activism but do not a¤ ect bidders directly will still have a
signi… cant e¤ ect on takeovers. This implies that legalization of two-tier “anti-activism”poison
pills will adversely a¤ ect M&A even if “standard pills” that prevent takeovers are already
prevalent.
Corollary 2 Suppose h(2L)
h(L) < 2 and consider the unique equilibrium with  (1)> 0. Then:
(i) The equilibrium exhibits only treatment if and only if
=s
L <b: (12)
(ii) The equilibrium exhibits both selection and treatment if and only if
=s
2L <b  =s
L and 1 + 1
2
^ 
^ < h (2L)
h (L) : (13)
(iii) The equilibrium exhibits only selection if and only if
b =s
2L; or =s
2L <b  =s
L and h (2L)
h (L)  1 + 1
2
^ 
^ : (14)
24
Corollary 2 identi… es the regions in which the selection and the treatment e¤ ects appear
in equilibrium. Interestingly, if =s
2L < b =s
L then treatment and selection can occur simul-
taneously, depending on the size of the position that the activist builds in the target: If the
activist buys 2L shares then the treatment e¤ ect is in play, and if she buys L shares then the
selection e¤ ect is in play. Nevertheless, as we discussed above, whether the activist actually
chooses to buy 2L shares depends on the ratio h(2L)
h(L) , and in this respect, the appearance of
the treatment e¤ ect in equilibrium is endogenous. Since the liquidity demand is smaller than
L, but the activist can exert pressure on the incumbent only if she buys strictly more than L
shares, thereby revealing her presence and private information, the result that in equilibrium
the activist chooses to buy 2L shares demonstrates that activists can mitigate the ine¢ ciencies
caused by the bidder’ s commitment problem even though building a position is costly.
According to Proposition 3, the ex-ante probability of a takeover is 27
 =
8
<
:
(1 ) (L) + (2L) if h(2L)
h(L) < 2
 (0) if h(2L)
h(L)  2
(15)
where
 () =G(w () v ())
Z 1
minfb;=s
 g
dF (). (16)
If> 0 then ^ () is the probability of a takeover conditional on the activist owning  target
shares.
When the equilibrium exhibits selection, the activist has no real e¤ ect. Y et, the probability
of a takeover is higher when the activist is present as a target shareholder than when she is not.
T o see why, supposeh(2L)
h(L) < 2. If y = 0 then he activist buys no target shares, and since  = 0,
a takeover never takes place. If y = 1 then the activist becomes a target shareholder and the
conditional probability of a takeover is strictly positive. Intuitively, since  >0 the activist
uses her private information on  to speculate on a takeover of the target. Therefore, her
presence is correlated with a higher expected synergy and a higher probability that the bidder
makes an o¤ er. This observation suggests that one should not conclude from the empirical
evidence that targets are more likely to be acquired when they have activist as a shareholder
(e.g., Greenwood and Schor (2009) and Boyson et al. (2016)) that activists are necessarily
27 When multiple equilibria exist, we assume that the equilibrium with higher ex-ante probability of takeover
(or, equivalently the equilibrium with (1)> 0) is in play.
25
a¤ ecting the takeover process.
The next result shows that the comparative statics of  with respect to b, the incum-
bent board’ s private bene… ts of control, can help to distinguish between the selection and the
treatment e¤ ects in equilibrium.28
Proposition 4 If the equilibrium exhibits only selection then  is strictly decreasing in b. If
the equilibrium exhibits treatment then  is non-monotonic in b.
If the equilibrium exhibits only selection then either b =s
2L; or =s
2L <b  =s
L and = 0.
Either way, = (0), and the probability of a takeover is decreasing in b. Intuitively, higher
b implies that the bidder has a lower probability of reaching an agreement with the incumbent
at favorable terms, and hence, weaker incentives to perform due diligence. This can be seen in
Figure 2: At any point left to the dotted vertical line, the equilibrium exhibits only selection,
and the probability of a takeover is decreasing in b. Since in the selection region the activist
has no e¤ ect on the takeover, the same pattern holds if the activist is not present as a target
shareholder. This can be seen by the black curve in Figure 2.
Figure 2 - The e¤ect of b on the probability of a takeover, 
L = 0:1;s = 0:75; = 0:225; = 0:6; = 0:5; N(0; 5);cLogN ( 1:62; 0:13)
Interestingly, as shown by Figure 2, the probability of a takeover can increase withb when
the equilibrium exhibits treatment. Indeed, starting at the dotted vertical line, the blue curve
28 We focus on local comparative statics of the equilibrium in which  (1) > 0, where the equilibrium
continues to exist upon a small change in the parameter.
26
in Figure 2 is increasing in b. T o understand this result, note that all else being equal, higher b
increases the takeover premium paid by the bidder conditional on reaching in agreement with
incumbent. While the bidder’ s incentives to perform due diligence may decrease, the activist’ s
incentives to buy shares of the target increase. Not only the activist expects a higher premium
when the bidder negotiates the takeover with the incumbent, but also her threat of running a
proxy … ght becomes more credible (the interval[=s
2L;b ] expands), where both channels increase
the value of the activist’ s private information. This can be seen in the left panel of Figure
3: the activist starts buying 2L shares with a positive probability when b reaches the dotted
line. The right panel of Figure 3 shows that up to this point, the pro… t from buying 2L shares
is lower than the pro… t from buying L. Since in this region =s
2L < b =s
L , the equilibrium
starts exhibiting treatment exactly at the dotted line. Since the bidder bene… ts from the
activist’ s presence, the indirect e¤ ect ofb on the bidder’ s incentives can be positive, and the
overall probability of a takeover can increase. Therefore, contrary to the common wisdom,
the probability of a takeover and the likelihood of an activist campaign can increase with the
resistance of the incumbents, as such resistance creates more investment opportunities for the
activist.29
Figure 3 - The e¤ect of b on  and (;)
L = 0:1;s = 0:75; = 0:225; = 0:6; = 0:5; N(0; 5);cLogN ( 1:62; 0:13)
29 In some cases, higher b increases the bidder’ s incentives to conduct due diligence even if the the size of the
activist’ s stake does not change. Intuitively, if b is small, the bidder can reach an agreement even if the activist
does not intervene, and the bidder pays a premium of s + (1 s)b. If b is large, the bidder can reach an
agreement only if the activist intervenes, in which case, he pays a lower premium of s.
27
4.2.1 Arbitrage activism - activist moves last
Our assumption that the bidder’ s decision to perform due diligence is made after the activist’ s
position in the target is revealed is consistent with Boyson et al. (2016), who … nd that in 70% of
the events in their sample a takeover bid is announced within 2 years of a hedge fund initiating
an activist campaign. In 30% of the events, however, the activist entersafter the announcement
of an acquisition agreement but before closing. Nevertheless, the complementarity between
shareholder activism and takeovers extends to these cases as well.
T o see why, consider a variant of the model in which the activist (and the market) observes
the decision of the bidder to perform due diligence before she decides if and how many target
shares to buy (i.e., the bidder moves … rst). Since the activist “waits” with her investment
decision until the bidder makes his own decision, we assume that with probability the activist
has found an alternative investment and therefore cannot invest in the target. The emergence
of this outside option is the activist’ s private information.
If the bidder does not perform due diligence, he does not make an o¤ er, the activist never
buys shares of the target, and the target remains independent. The interesting case is when
the bidder has performed due diligence of the target. In this case, the analysis is similar to
Section 4.2 with the following two exceptions: the function h () is replaced by v (), and the
decision of the activist not to invest is not a bad signal on … rm value. It can be shown that
the activist can still pro… t from investing in the target since buying shares with the intent of
pressuring the incumbent to accept the o¤ er is still the activist’ s private information. The
anticipation that the activist will put pressure on the target board to accept the bidder’ s o¤ er
once it is on the table increases the bidder’ s incentives to perform due diligence and make the
o¤ er in the … rst place. In this respect, the complementarity between shareholder activism and
takeovers extends to this setup.
5 Extensions
W e consider several extensions of the baseline model. F or simplicity, we assume m = 0. The
formal results and their proofs are given in the Online Appendix.
28
5.1 Incumbent boards as motivated sellers
In management buyouts or when incumbents are promised large bonuses if the takeover suc-
ceeds (Grinstein and Hribar (2004) and Hartzell et al. (2004)), the agency problem between
the incumbents and shareholders ‡ ips as the former are too motivated to sell the … rm. If there
is a concern that the interests of target shareholders are compromised, activist investors will
challenge the deal with the intent of either blocking it or “forcing” the bidder to sweeten the
bid (see Jiang et al. (2015)).
T o stress this point, suppose that unless forced otherwise, the incumbent board would sell
the … rm for a zero premium. Unlike the incumbent, the activist would negotiate a premium of
s. Therefore, target shareholders elect the activist whenever she runs a proxy … ght. As in
the baseline model, the activist would run a proxy only if =s
  . It follows that the target
is always acquired by the bidder when > 0: If the activist owns  shares of the target and
=s
   then the bidder pays q +s, and in all other cases the bidder pays q. Unlike the
baseline model, here the activist increases the expected premium the bidder is required to pay
without increasing the likelihood that the incumbent board agrees to sell the … rm. Therefore,
the acquisition is less pro… table from the bidder’ s perspective.
Similar to the discussion in Section 4.2.1, the activist can make a pro… t by challenging the
deal although she invests after the deal is announced. Di¤ erent from that discussion, however,
the anticipation that the activist will put pressure on the target board to reject the bidder’ s
o¤ er or demand a higher premium weakens the bidder’ s incentives to perform due diligence.
Therefore, when the incumbent is a motivated seller, there is substitution between shareholder
activism and takeovers.
5.2 Activist’ s proposals
As described in Section 3.2.5, activist investors often have the capacity to propose ways to
increase the standalone value of the target. Does it complement or substitute the activist’ s
ability to pressure the incumbent to sell the … rm? T o answer this question, suppose that
the bidder can increase the value of the target by  only through its acquisition, while the
activist can make a proposal that increases the value of the target by " 0, but only if it
remains independent. The incumbent loses his private bene… ts if the target is acquired or the
proposal is implemented. The proposal can be implemented by the incumbent or the activist,
but without the activist, the incumbent is either unaware or does not have the expertise to
29
implement this proposal.
Suppose"< minfb;=g. Since "<b , the incumbent would not voluntarily implement the
activist’ s proposal. The activist’ s intervention can be interpreted as the removal of ine¢ ciencies
caused by the incumbent’ s consumption of private bene… ts. However, since " < =, the
activist does not have enough incentives to run a proxy … ght if the sole purpose is implementing
the proposal. Nevertheless, the analysis in the baseline model continues to hold with the
exception that the activist’ s threat of running a proxy … ght is credible if and only if=
s   1 s
s "<
 < b, and in this region, the takeover premium is s + (1 s)". Intuitively, the upside
from the takeover increases the incentives of the activist to run a proxy … ght. Since the
proposal increases the standalone value of the … rm once the activist obtains control of the
target board, it also increases the takeover premium that the activist can negotiate with the
bidder. Similarly, the ability to increase the standalone value of … rm increases the credibility
of the activist’ s threat to run a proxy … ght when the incumbent resists selling the … rm. In this
respect, corporate control activism and non-control activism are complements. Moreover, since
the activist relaxes the resistance of the incumbent to the takeover, the bidder’ s expected pro… t
is higher when the activist is present. In fact, it can increase with " even conditional on the
activist’ s presence, if increase in the likelihood of a takeover is … rst order relative to increase
in premium once the takeover takes place. That said, if " is su¢ ciently large, the bidder’ s
expected pro… t would decrease with " and the activist’ s stake, and a takeover is less likely
when the activist is present than when she is not. In those cases, corporate control activism
and non-control activism are substitutes.
5.3 Limited veto power and tender o¤ ers
In this section we relax the assumption that the target board has the full power to block the
deal. Speci… cally, we assume that if at the end of the second round of negotiations no agreement
is reached between whoever controls the target board and the bidder, with probability2 [0; 1]
the deal is blocked and the target remains independent, but with probability 1  the bidder
can make a tender o¤ er directly to target shareholders. F or simplicity, we focus on conditional
tender o¤ ers for all target shares. The baseline model is a special case where  = 1. T ender
o¤ ers exhibit collective action problems such as free-riding: T arget shareholders reject o¤ ers
lower than their perception of the post takeover value of their shares (Grossman and Hart
(1980)). Suppose > 0 and assume that the post takeover value of the minority shares under
30
the bidder’ s control is q +' where '2 [0; 1]. The term (1 ')  can be interpreted as
either the bidder’ s private bene… ts from the acquisition or the expected dilution of minority
shareholders under the bidder’ s control.
Similar to the baseline model, the bidder never runs a proxy … ght, but the activist runs a
proxy … ght if and only if =s
 <b . That is, the activist is more likely to run a proxy … ght
when  is larger. In this respect, there is substitution between the bidder’ s ability to bypass
the target board through tender o¤ ers and the activist’ s ability or need to unseat it through
proxy … ghts. Intuitively, if is low then the bidder has an alternative mean by which he can
overcome the resistance of the board, and hence, the activist has fewer incentives to run a
proxy … ght in order to facilitate the takeover. Therefore, one would expect activists to play a
smaller role in the market for corporate control in jurisdictions in which boards have weaker
power to block deals, such as the U.S. in the 1980s or the U.K .
6 Conclusion
This paper studies the role of activist investors in the market for corporate control. W e
identify a commitment problem that prevents bidders from unseating resisting and entrenched
incumbent directors of target companies through proxy … ghts. Unlike bidders, activists are on
the same side of the negotiating table as other shareholders of the target, and hence, enjoy
higher credibility when campaigning against the incumbent board. Building on this insight, we
demonstrate that although both bidders and activists can use similar techniques to challenge
corporate boards (i.e., proxy … ghts), activists are more e¤ ective in relaxing the resistance of
incumbent directors to takeovers. The fact that most proxy … ghts are launched by activists
and not by bidders is consistent with shareholder activism being the market solution for the
bidder’ s commitment problem.
Our analysis also highlights the complementarity between shareholder activism and takeovers.
Activists bene… t from the possibility that companies in which they invest will become a takeover
target, while bidders, who interpret the presence of an activist as a signal that the target is
available for sale, are more likely start takeover negotiations when the target has an activist as
a shareholder. W e show that since the model’ s comparative statics is sensitive to the existence
of the treatment e¤ ect in equilibrium, our analysis can be used to create identi… cation strate-
gies of the treatment e¤ ect of shareholder activism in takeovers. Overall, the analysis sheds
light on the interaction between M&A and shareholder activism.
31
References
[1] Agrawal, Anup, and Ralph W alkling, 1994, Executive careers and compensation surround-
ing takeover bids, Journal of Finance 49, 985-1014.
[2] Atanasov, Vladimir A., Audra L. Boone, and David Haushalter, 2010, Is there shareholder
expropriation in the United States? An analysis of publicly traded subsidiaries, Journal
of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 45, 1-26.
[3] Atanasov, Vladimir A., Bernard S. Black, and Conrad S. Ciccotello, 2014, Unbundling
and measuring tunneling, University of Illinois Law Review 5, 1697-1738.
[4] Back, Kerry, Pierre Collin-Dufresne, Vyacheslav F os, T ao Li, and Alexander Ljungqvist,
2016, Activism, strategic trading, and liquidity, W orking paper.
[5] Bagnoli, Mark, Roger Gordon, and Barton L. Lipman, 1989, Stock repurchase as a takeover
defense, Review of Financial Studies 2, 423-443.
[6] Baron, David P ., 1983, T ender o¤ ers and management resistance, Journal of Finance 38,
331-343.
[7] Bates, Thomas W., Michael L. Lemmon, and James S. Linck, 2006, Shareholder wealth
e¤ ects and bid negotiation in freeze-out deals: Are minority shareholders left out in the
cold?, Journal of Financial Economics 81, 681-708.
[8] Bebchuk, Lucian A., and Oliver D. Hart, 2001, T akeover bids vs. proxy … ghts in contests
for corporate control, W orking paper.
[9] Bebchuk, Lucian A., John Coates IV, and Guhan Subramanian, 2002, The powerful an-
titakeover force of staggered boards: Theory, evidence, and policy, Stanford Law Review
54, 887-951.
[10] Becht, Marco, Patrick Bolton, and Ailsa Röell, 2003, Corporate governance and control,
in George Constantinides, Milton Harris, and René Stulz (eds.), The Handbook of the
Economics of Finance (Amsterdam: North-Holland).
[11] Becht, Marco, Julian R. F ranks, Jeremy Grant, and Hannes F. W agner, 2015, The returns
to hedge fund activism: An international study, W orking paper.
[12] Berle, Adolf A., and Gardiner C. Means, 1932, The Modern Corporation and Private
Property (New Y ork: Macmillan).
32
[13] Bhattacharya, Utpal, 1997, Communication costs, information acquisition, and voting
decisions, The Review of Financial Studies 10, 1065-1097.
[14] Berkovitch, Elazar, and Naveen Khanna, 1990, How target shareholders bene… t from
value-reducing defensive strategies in takeovers, Journal of Finance 45, 137-156.
[15] Boyson, Nicole M., Nickolay Gantchev, and Anil Shivdasani, 2016, Activism mergers,
W orking paper.
[16] Brav, Alon, W ei Jiang, F rank Partnoy, and Randall Thomas, 2008, Hedge fund activism,
corporate governance, and … rm performance, Journal of Finance 63, 1729-1775.
[17] Bulow, Jeremy, Ming Huang, and Paul Klemperer, 1999, T oeholds and takeovers, Journal
of Political Economy 107, 427-454.
[18] Burkart, Mike, 1995, Initial shareholdings and overbidding in takeover contests, Journal
of Finance 50, 1491-1515.
[19] Burkart, Mike, Denis Gromb, and F austo Panunzi, 2000, Agency con‡ icts in public and
negotiated transfers of corporate control, Journal of Finance 55, 647-677.
[20] Burkart, Mike, and Samuel Lee, 2015, Hedge fund activism vs. hostile takeover bids,
W orking paper.
[21] Collin-Dufresne, Pierre, Vyacheslav F os, and Dmitriy Muravyev, 2016, Informed trading
and option prices: Evidence from activist trading, W orking paper.
[22] Cornelli, F rancesca, and David Li, 2002, Risk arbitrage in takeovers, The Review of Fi-
nancial Studies 15, 837-868.
[23] Djankov, Simeon, Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-Silanes, and Andrei Shleifer, 2008,
The law and economics of self-dealing, Journal of Financial Economics 88, 430-465.
[24] Edmans, Alex, 2014, Blockholders and corporate governance, Annual Review of Financial
Economics 6, 23-50.
[25] F os, Vyacheslav, 2016, The disciplinary e¤ ects of proxy contests, Management Science,
forthcoming.
[26] Gilson, Ronald J., 2001, Unocal … fteen years later (and what we can do about it), Delaware
Journal of Corporate Law 26, 491-513.
33
[27] Gilson, Ronald J., and Alan Schwartz, 2001, Sales and elections as methods for transferring
corporate control, Theoretical Inquiries in Law 2, 783-814.
[28] Gomes, Armando, 2012, T akeovers, freezeouts, and risk arbitrage, W orking paper.
[29] Gordon, Elizabeth A., Elaine Henry, and Darius Palia, 2004, Related party transactions
and corporate governance, Advances in Financial Economics 9, 1-27.
[30] Greenwood, Robin, and Michael Schor, 2009, Investor activism and takeovers, Journal of
Financial Economics 92, 362-375.
[31] Grinstein, Y aniv, and Paul Hribar, 2004, CEO compensation and incentives: Evidence
from M&A bonuses, Journal of Financial Economics 73, 119-143.
[32] Grossman, Sanford J., and Motty Perry, 1986, Perfect sequential equilibrium, Journal of
Economic Theory 39, 97– 119.
[33] Grossman, Sanford J., and Oliver D. Hart, 1980, T akeover bids, the free-rider problem,
and the theory of the corporation, Bell Journal of Economics 11, 42-64.
[34] Harford, Jarrad, Dirk Jenter, and Kai Li, 2011, Institutional cross-holdings and their e¤ ect
on acquisition decisions, Journal of Financial Economics 99, 27-39.
[35] Harris, Milton, and Artur Raviv, 1988, Corporate governance: V oting rights and majority
rules, Journal of Financial Economics 20, 203-235.
[36] Hartzell, Jay C., Eli Ofek, and David Y ermack, 2004, What’ s in it for me? CEOs whose
… rms are acquired,Review of Financial Studies 17, 37-61.
[37] Hirshleifer, David, and Sheridan Titman, 1990, Share tendering strategies and the success
of hostile takeover bids, Journal of Political Economy 98, 295-324.
[38] Hu, Henry T. C., and Bernard Black, 2006, The new vote buying: Empty voting and
hidden (morphable) ownership, Southern California Law Review 79, 811– 908.
[39] Hu, Henry T. C., and Bernard Black, 2007, Hedge funds, insiders, and the decoupling
of economic and voting ownership: Empty voting and hidden (morphable) ownership,
Journal of Corporate Finance 13, 343-367.
[40] Jenter, Dirk, and Katharina Lewellen, 2015, CEO preferences and acquisitions, Journal
of Finance 70, 2813-2852.
34
[41] Jiang, W ei, T ao Li, and Danqing Mei, 2016, In‡ uencing control: Jawboning in risk arbi-
trage, W orking paper.
[42] Kahan, Marcel, and Edward B. Rock, 2007, Hedge funds in corporate governance and
corporate control, University of Pennsylvania Law Review 155, 1021-1093.
[43] Kyle, Albert S., 1985, Continuous auctions and insider trading, Econometrica 53, 1315-
1335.
[44] Kyle, Albert S., and Jean-Luc Vila, 1991, Noise trading and takeovers, Rand Journal of
Economics 22, 54-71.
[45] Martin, Kenneth, and John McConnell, 1991, Corporate performance, corporate
takeovers, and management turnover, Journal of Finance 46, 671-687.
[46] Matvos, Gregor, and Michael Ostrovsky, 2008, Cross-ownership, returns, and voting in
mergers, Journal of Financial Economics 89, 391-403.
[47] Maug, Ernst, 1998, Large shareholders as monitors: Is there a trade-o¤ between liquidity
and control?, Journal of Finance 53, 65-98.
[48] Maug, Ernst, 1999, How e¤ ective is proxy voting? Information aggregation and con‡ ict
resolution in corporate voting contests, W orking paper.
[49] Ofer, Aharon R., and Anjan V. Thakor, 1987, A theory of stock price response to al-
ternative corporate disbursement methods: Stock repurchases and dividends, Journal of
Finance 42, 365-394.
[50] Rubinstein, Ariel, 1982, Perfect equilibrium in a bargaining model, Econometrica 50,
97-109.
[51] Shleifer, Andrei, and Robert W. Vishny, 1986, Large shareholders and corporate control,
Journal of Political Economy 94, 461-488.
[52] Singh, Rajdeep, 1998, T akeover bidding with toeholds: The case of the owner’ s curse,
Review of Financial Studies 11, 679-704.
[53] W alkling, Ralph, and Michael Long, 1984, Agency theory, managerial welfare, and
takeover bid resistance, RAND Journal of Economics 15, 54-68.
[54] W ulf, Julie, and Harbir Singh, 2011, How do acquirers retain successful target CEOs? The
role of governance, Management Science 57, 2101-2114.
[55] Y¬ lmaz, Bilge, 1999, Strategic voting and proxy contests, W orking paper.
35
A Proofs of main results
Proof of Lemma 1. Generally, there are three scenarios to consider. The scenarios di¤ er with
respect to the composition of the target board after the proxy … ght stage. Under all scenarios,
target shareholders approve the acquisition agreement if it is brought to a shareholder vote
if and only if the takeover o¤ er is weakly higher than the standalone value of the … rm, q.
Moreover, the bidder will not agree to pay more than q + 
1 m per share.
In the … rst scenario, the incumbent board is reelected and retains control of the target.
The incumbent board would agree to sell the … rm if and only if the bidder o¤ ers at least q +b
per share. Therefore, if 
1 m <b no agreement is reached and the target remains independent
under the control of the incumbent. If 
1 mb then the incumbent board and the bidder reach
an agreement in which the expected takeover premium is s 
1 m + (1 s)b: with probability
1 s the bidder proposes to pay q +b, which is the lowest price that is acceptable by both the
incumbent board and the shareholders, and with probability s the incumbent board propose
to receive q + 
1 m , which is the highest price that the bidder would agree pay for the … rm.
In the second scenario, the activist wins the proxy … ght and controls the target board. If no
agreement is reached with the bidder, the target remains independent, and the activist’ s payo¤
per share is q, which is the value of the target as a standalone … rm. Therefore, the activist
would agree to sell the … rm if and only if the o¤ er is at leastq. Since > 0, the bidder and the
activist always reach an acquisition agreement that is also acceptable to target shareholders.
With probability 1 s the bidder o¤ ersq, which is the lowest price that is acceptable by both
the activist and the shareholders, and with probability s the activist asks for q + 
1 m , which
is the highest price the bidder would pay for the … rm.
In the third scenario, the bidder wins the proxy … ght and controls the target board. The
argument is given in the main text.
The next result is a generalization of Proposition 1 for cases where the bidder commits to
act in the best interests of target shareholders once elected to their board.
Proposition 5 Suppose the … rst round of negotiations fails. Then:
(i) The bidder runs a proxy … ght if and only if he has committed to act in the best interests
of target shareholders once elected to the target board, the activist does not run a proxy
… ght, and
1
1 m

1 s 
1 m <b: (17)
Whenever the bidder runs a proxy … ght, he wins.
36
(ii) If the activist owns  shares of the target, the activist runs a proxy … ght if and only if
the bidder does not run a proxy … ght and
=s
  
1 m <b: (18)
Whenever the activist runs a proxy … ght, she wins.
Proof. If the bidder has not committed to act in the best interests of target shareholders once
elected to the target board, then the proposition reduces to Proposition 1, which is proved
in the main text. Suppose throughout the rest of the proof that the bidder has made this
commitment. If the incumbent board retains control of the target in the second round of
negotiations, then shareholder value is q + 1fb 
1 mg

s 
1 m + (1 s)b

. If the activist or the
bidder obtains control of the target board, an agreement will be reached in the second round
and the expected shareholder value is q +s 
1 m . Therefore, if b 
1 m then neither the bidder
nor the activist can win a proxy … ght, and hence, they will not initiate one. Suppose 
1 m <b
and the … rst round of negotiations failed. Shareholders will support whoever runs a proxy … ght,
knowing that in both cases an agreement will be reached in the second round of negotiations
and that the expected shareholder value will be q +s 
1 m . Therefore, if one player is going to
run a proxy … ght, the other player does not have incentives to run a proxy … ght, since by doing
so he will obtain the same pro… t but will in addition incur the cost . Consider the case in
which the bidder runs a proxy … ght. If the bidder runs a proxy … ght then his expected pro… t
is
q +   (1 m)

q +s 
1 m

  qm =  (1 s) :
If neither the bidder nor the activist runs a proxy … ght, the … rm will remain independent
and the bidder’ s pro… t will be zero. Therefore, the bidder will run a proxy … ght if and only
if 
1 s  . This completes part (i). Consider the case in which the activist runs a proxy
… ght. If the activist runs a proxy … ght then her expected payo¤ is
 
q +s 
1 m

 . If neither
the bidder nor the activist runs a proxy … ght, then the … rm will remain independent, and
the activist’ s payo¤ will be q. Therefore, the activist will run a proxy … ght if and only if
=s
  
1 m . This completes part (ii).
The next result is a generalization of Proposition 2 for cases where the bidder commits to
act in the best interests of target shareholders once elected to their board.
Proposition 6 A unique equilibrium exists and has the following properties:
37
(i) If 
1 m minfb; =s
g then the bidder reaches an agreement in the … rst round of negotia-
tions with the incumbent board in which he pays q +s 
1 m + (1 s)b 1f 
1 mbg per share
and acquires the target.
(ii) If 1
1 m

1 s 
1 m < minfb; =s
g and the bidder has committed to act in the best interest of
target shareholders, then the bidder reaches an agreement in the … rst round of negotiations
with the incumbent board in which he pays an expected price of q +s +
1 m per share and
acquires the target.
(iii) If 
1 m < minfb; =s
 ; 1
1 m

1 sg and the bidder has committed to act in the best interest of
target shareholders or if 
1 m < minfb; =s
g and the bidder has not committed, then the
target remains independent.
Proof. W e start by proving that if b 
1 m the bidder pays q +s 
1 m + (1 s)b and acquires
the target after the … rst round of negotiations. Based on Proposition 5, if b 
1 m then
neither the bidder nor the activist will run a proxy … ght. Therefore, both the bidder and the
incumbent board expect that in the second round of negotiations they will reach an agreement
with an expected premium of s 
1 m + (1 s)b. F or this reason, the bidder will not agree to
pay more than this amount and the incumbent board will not accept less than this amount. If
there are arbitrarily small waiting costs to either the bidder or the incumbent board, they will
reach an agreement in the … rst round of negotiations in which the bidder pays a premium of
s 
1 m + (1 s)b.
Second, suppose maxf=s
 ; 1
1 m

1 sg 
1 m <b and the bidder has committed to act in the
best interest of target shareholders. Based on Proposition 5, there is an equilibrium of the
subgame in which the bidder the runs a proxy … ght and an equilibrium in which the activist
runs a proxy … ght. Consider the former equilibrium. W e prove that the bidder pays an expected
price ofq +s +
1 m and acquires the target in the … rst round of negotiations. If the … rst round of
negotiations fails, the bidder will run a proxy … ght and win. In the second round, the expected
premium is q +s 
1 m , and the bidder’ s expected pro… t is (1 s) > 0. In the … rst round
of negotiations, shareholders would reject any o¤ er lower than q +s 
1 m , and accept any o¤ er
higher than that amount. If the bidder is the proposer, he will o¤ er q +s 
1 m , and both the
board and the shareholders will accept it. If the board is the proposer, he will o¤ er q + s+
1 m ,
which leaves the bidder with a pro… t of  (1 s)  0. Indeed,
q +   (1 m)p qm =  (1 s) ,p =q + s +
1 m :
38
The bidder will accept this deal. Overall, the expected takeover premium is q +s +
1 m , as
required. Consider the latter equilibrium. Based on Lemma 1, all players expect that once the
activist obtains control of the board, she will reach a sale agreement in which the bidder pays
in expectation q +s 
1 m per share. The bidder realizes that any lower o¤ er will be rejected
by shareholders, who expect the activist to negotiate a higher o¤ er at the second round. The
bidder can a¤ ord to pay q +s 
1 m , but he will not pay more than q +s 
1 m , since he always
has the option to pay that much in the second round when he negotiates with the activist.
The incumbent board understands the bidder’ s incentives and that the takeover of the target
is inevitable, and therefore, he will lose his private bene… ts of control. However, by accepting
the o¤ erq +s 
1 m the board can avoid the costly proxy … ght. Therefore, the incumbent and
the bidder reach an agreement in the … rst round of negotiations where the o¤ er is q +s 
1 m ,
as required.
Third, suppose either =s
  
1 m < minfb; 1
1 m

1 sg and the bidder has committed to act in
the best interest of target shareholders, or =s
  
1 m < band the bidder has not committed.
Based on Proposition 5, the only equilibrium of the subgame is one in which the activist runs
a proxy … ght. Therefore, as in the second step above, the bidder reaches an agreement in the
… rst round of negotiations with the incumbent board in which he pays q +s 
1 m per share and
acquires the target.
F ourth, suppose 1
1 m

1 s  
1 m < minfb; =s
g and the bidder has committed to act in
the best interest of target shareholders. Based on Proposition 5, the only equilibrium of the
subgame is one in which the bidder runs a proxy … ght. Therefore, as in the second argument
above, the bidder reaches an agreement in the … rst round of negotiations with the incumbent
board in which he pays an expected price of q +s +
1 m per share and acquires the target.
Fifth, suppose either 
1 m < minfb; =s
 ; 1
1 m

1 sg and the bidder has committed to act in the
best interest of target shareholders, or 
1 m < minfb; =s
g and the bidder has not committed.
W e prove that the target remains independent under the incumbent board’ s control. Based on
Proposition 5, in both cases, neither the bidder nor the activist runs a proxy … ght if the … rst
round of negotiations fails. Since 
1 m <b , the incumbent board and the bidder will not reach
an agreement in the second round of negotiations. Therefore, in the … rst round of negotiations,
the incumbent board will reject any o¤ er lower than q +b, and the bidder will reject any o¤ er
higher than q + 
1 m . Thus, the parties will not reach an agreement in the … rst round as well,
and the target remains independent.
Finally, the statement of the proposition is the union of the arguments above subject to
the assumption that if maxf=s
 ; 1
1 m

1 sg 
1 m < band the … rst round of negotiations fails,
39
then the equilibrium in which the activist runs a proxy … ght is selected.
Proof of Proposition 3. W e … rst prove that in any equilibrium  (0) = 0 . If y = 0
then the activist infers that  = 0 with certainty, and hence, < 0 with certainty. Based on
Proposition 2, the probability of a takeover is zero and … rm value is q. Since the share price
cannot be smaller thanq, regardless of the beliefs of the market maker (on or o¤ the equilibrium
path), the activist’ s expected pro… t from submitting any order  >0 is non-positive. Given
our assumption that the activist does not buy shares if the expected pro… t is zero,  (0) = 0.
Second, we prove that in any equilibrium the bidder performs due diligence if and only
if  = 1 and c < w( (1)) v( (1)). Based on Corollary 1, if the bidder performed due
diligence his expected net pro… t conditional on  and  is  (w() v()) c. As a result,
if the activist owns  target shares then the bidder performs due diligence if and only if  = 1
andc < w() v(). This condition reduces to  = 1 andc < w( (1)) v( (1)) because
 = 1 implies that y = 1 , i.e, if the bidder has received  = 1 then the activist must have
bought (1) shares in the target.
Third, consider an equilibrium in which the activist buys no shares regardless of the real-
ization ofy. The only order ‡ ows on the equilibrium path are z = 0 andz =L. In those cases,
the market maker sets the price onp (z) =q+h (0). If z62f 0;Lg thenp (z)  (maxfz; 2Lg)
where
 ()q + 
1 (1 )h () (19)
is the … rm value from the activist’ s perspective if y = 1 and she owns  shares of the target.
Note that  () is strictly increasing in  if> =s
b and invariant to if< =s
b . Suppose (9)
does not hold. The worst o¤ -equilibrium beliefs from the activist’ s perspective are set when
z62f 0;Lg) p (z) =  (maxfz; 2Lg). Suppose that is the case, and consider the following
deviation of the activist: She buys L shares of the target if y = 1 and no shares otherwise. Her
expected pro… t conditional ony = 1 is
  (L)  p (L) +p (2L)
2 =   ( L)  q +h (0) +  (2L)
2
= 1
2

2 
1 (1 )h (L) h (0)  
1 (1 )h (2L)

which is strictly positive if and only if (9) does not hold. Therefore, such equilibrium cannot
exist. If (9) holds, then the same o¤ -equilibrium beliefs sustain an equilibrium in which the
activist never buys any shares. Indeed, given these o¤ -equilibrium beliefs neither the above
40
deviation to buying L shares nor any other deviation to buying 0 =2f 0;L; 2Lg shares gives
the activist strictly positive pro… t.
F ourth, we prove that in any equilibrium, if (1)> 0 then either (1) =L or (1) = 2L.
Suppose on the contrary there is an equilibrium in which the activist submits  (1) = ^2
(0; 2L)=fLg with a positive probability. F rom the activist’ s perspective, the value of the … rm
conditional on y = 1 is  (^). The activist expects a total order ‡ ow of ^ or ^ +L with
equal probabilities, and therefore, she expects to pay p(^)+p(^+L)
2 . Since ^ > 0, by revealed
preferences,
 (^)  p(^) +p(^ +L)
2 > 0: (20)
W e proceed in two steps. First, if ^2 (0;L ) then ^<L< ^ +L. Therefore, if z2f ^; ^ +Lg
then the market maker must infer that the activist submitted an order to buy at least ^ shares
of the target. Since ^ >0, the market maker also infers that y = 1.30 Since  () is weakly
increasing in, conditional on z2f ^; ^ +Lg, the market maker believes that the value of the
… rm is at least  (^), which implies p(z)  (^) for z2f ^; ^ +Lg. However, this condition
contradicts (20). Second, if ^2 (L; 2L) then ^ L < L <^. However, since submitting
2 (0;L ) is never an equilibrium (by the … rst step), if z2f ^; ^ +Lg then the market maker
must infer that the activist submitted an order to buy at least ^ shares of the target. As in
the … rst step, this conclusion creates a contradiction.
Fifth, consider an equilibrium such that if y = 0 the activist buys no shares, and if y = 1
she buys zero shares with probability ,L shares with probability 1   , and 2L shares with
probability. Notice that if  2 (0; 1) then the activist must be indi¤ erent between buying
no shares and buying a strictly positive number of shares, which is not possible in equilibrium
since the activist must make a strictly positive pro… t if she buys a strictly positive number of
shares. Therefore,  2f 0; 1g in equilibrium. Hence, in equilibrium if  >0 or  < 1 then it
must be  = 0, and if  > 0, it must be  = 0 and  = 1. The latter case is addressed by
the step number 2 above. Therefore, consider an equilibrium with  = 0. There are at most
four possible order ‡ ows on the equilibrium path. First, if z = 0 then the liquidity demand is
zero and the activist did not buy a stake because she received y = 0. In this case, … rm value
is q. Second, if z = 3L and  >0 then the market maker infers that the activist bought 2L
shares and y = 1, and therefore, p (3L; ) =  (2L). If  = 0 then z = 3L is o¤ -equilibrium,
and setting the o¤ -equilibrium price as  (2L), which is the highest possible and yielded by the
o¤ -equilibrium beliefs thaty = 1 and the activist submitted minfz; 2Lg shares, will ensure
30 Since> 0 is a weakly dominated strategy when y = 0, we restrict the o¤-equilibrium beliefs of the market
maker and the bidder to be such that the activist observes y = 1 with probability one whenever > 0.
41
that if in equilibrium  = 0 , the activist will not deviate to choosing 2L with a positive
probability. Third, suppose z =L. There are two events the market maker considers:
1. With probability 1
2(1 ) the liquidity demand isL and the activist did not buy a stake
because she received y = 0. In this case, … rm value is q.
2. With probability 1
2[1 (1 )] (1 ) the liquidity demand is zero, the activist received
signaly = 1, and she bought a stake L. In this case, … rm value is  (L).
Combined, the share price is
p (L; ) =
1
2(1 )q + 1
2[1 (1 )] (1 )  (L)
1
2(1 ) + 1
2[1 (1 )] (1 ) (21)
= q + 1 
1
1 (1 )  ( (L) q):
F ourth, supposez = 2L. There are two events the market maker considers:
1. With probability 1
2[1 (1 )] (1 ) the liquidity demand is L, the activist received
signaly = 1, and she bought a stake L. In this case, … rm value is  (L).
2. With probability 1
2[1 (1 )] the liquidity demand is zero, the activist received signal
y = 1, and she bought a stake 2L. In this case, … rm value is  (2L).
Combined, the share price is
p (2L; ) =
1
2[1 (1 )] (1 )  (L) + 1
2[1 (1 )]  (2L)
1
2[1 (1 )] (1 ) + 1
2[1 (1 )] (22)
= (1  )  (L) +  (2L)
Given , the activist’ s expected pro… t conditional on y = 1 from buying L and 2L shares,
respectively, is
 (L; ) = L

  (L)  p (L; ) +p (2L; )
2

(23)
= 1
2

1 (1 )Lh (L)
" (1 )
1 (1 )
(1 )
1 (1 ) + 1 
 
h (2L)
h (L)   1
#
42
and
 (2L; ) = 2 L

  (2L)  p (2L; ) +p (3L; )
2

(24)
= 
1 (1 )L (1 ) (h (2L) h (L)):
Note that  (L; )>  (2L; ),  ()> h(2L)
h(L) where
 () = 1 +
(1 )
1 (1 )
(1 )
1 (1 ) + 1 
1
2 ; (25)
is strictly increasing in 2 [0; 1], where
 (0) = 1 + 1
2(1 )
 (1) = 2
Therefore, there is a unique 2 [0; 1] such that  (L; ) >  (2L; ) if and only if  > .
In particular, if there is an equilibrium in which the activist buys a positive number of shares
wheny = 1 then:
1. If h(2L)
h(L)  1 + 1
2(1 ) then  (0) h(2L)
h(L) and  ()> h(2L)
h(L) for all 2 (0; 1]. Therefore,
it must be  = 0.
2. If h(2L)
h(L)  2 then  (1) h(2L)
h(L) and  ()< h(2L)
h(L) for all 2 [0; 1). Therefore, it must be
 = 1.
3. If 1 + 1
2(1 ) < h(2L)
h(L) < 2 then  (0)< h(2L)
h(L) <  (1). Therefore, it must be  =
 1(h(2L)
h(L) )2 (0; 1), where
 1(h (2L)
h (L) ) = 1 + 1
2
1
1 (1 ) 
vuuuut
h
1 + 1
2
1
1 (1 )
i2
  2
1 (1 )
h(2L)
h(L) 1  1
2(1 )
h(2L)
h(L) 1
 : (26)
However, notice that  (2L; 1) = 0 , and hence, if h(2L)
h(L)  2 then an equilibrium in which
the activist buys a positive number of shares when y = 1 does not exist. Suppose h(2L)
h(L) < 2,
43
and note that in this region,  (L;)  (2L;) and < 1. Since  <1)  (2L; )> 0,
both  (L;) and  (2L;) are strictly positive. It is left to show that conditional on y = 1
the activist cannot make an expected pro… t larger than  (L;) (recall 2 (0; 1) implies
 (2L;) =  ( L;)) by deviating to  6= L; 2L. W e support the equilibrium with o¤ -
equilibrium beliefs of the market marker when he observes z =2f 0;L; 2Lg such that y = 1
and the activist submitted an order to buy minfz; 2Lg shares. Therefore, if z < 2L then
p (z) =  (z), and if z 2L then p (z) =  (2L). If 62f L; 2Lg then the activist’ s expected
pro… t conditional ony = 1 is
  ()  p() +p( +L)
2 =   ()    () +   (minf +L; 2Lg)
2  0;
and so a deviation is not pro… table, as required. Finally, the term in (10) gives  1(h(2L)
h(L) ) if
1 + 1
2(1 )< h(2L)
h(L) < 2 and zero if h(2L)
h(L)  1 + 1
2(1 ).
Proof of Proposition 4. If the equilibrium exhibits only selection then, either b =s
2L; or
=s
2L <b  =s
L and = 0. Either way,  = (0). Note that
@ (0)
@b = @
@b

G

(1 s)
Z 1
b
( b)dF ()
Z 1
b
dF ()

=  
"
g
 
(1 s)
R1
b ( b)dF ()

(1 s)
R1
b dF ()
2
+G
 
(1 s)
R1
b ( b)dF ()

f (b)
#
< 0;
as required.
Next, suppose the equilibrium exhibits treatment. F or example, suppose = 0 and =s
L <b .
Then
 = G(w (L) v (L))
Z 1
=s
L
dF ()
= G
 
(1 s)
 Z b
=s
L
dF () +
Z 1
b
( b)dF ()
!!Z 1
=s
L
dF ()
where
@
@b = g
 
(1 s)
 Z b
=s
L
dF () +
Z 1
b
( b)dF ()
!!Z 1
=s
L
dF ()
 (1 s) (bf (b)  (1 F (b)))
44
Therefore,
@
@b > 0,b> 1 F (b)
f (b) ;
as required.
45