=== PAGE 1 ===
 
No. 018/2020/FIN 
 
 
Liquid Stock as an Acquisition Currency 
 
 
 
Nishant Dass 
Georgia Institute of Technology 
 
Sheng Huang 
China Europe International Business School (CEIBS) 
 
Johan Maharjan 
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute 
 
Vikram Nanda 
University of Texas at Dallas 
 
 
June 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
* We thank Itay Goldstein, Jarrad Harford, Tom Shohfi, Jason Sturgess  (Discussant), Cong Wang (Discussant), and 
seminar participants at Cass Mergers and Acquisitions Conference, China International Conference in Finance, 
Peking University, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Singapore Management University, and Tsinghua Unive rsity for 
helpful comments. We also thank Yuan Meng for her excellent research assistance. All remaining errors are our own.   


=== PAGE 2 ===
1 
 
 
 
Liquid Stock as an Acquisition Currency 
 
 
Nishant Dass, Sheng Huang, Johan Maharjan, Vikram Nanda* 
 
June 2020 
 
 
Abstract 
We examine how stock liquidity affects acquisitions. We hypothesize that liquidity enhances acquirer 
stock as an acquisition currency, especially when the target is relatively less liquid. As hypothesized, 
more liquid firms are more likely to make acquisitions and the difference in stock liquidity between 
acquirer and target firms increases payment with stock, reduces acquisition premiums, and improves 
acquirer announcement returns in equity deals. To exploit benefits of liquidity, firms take steps to 
improve stock liquidity prior to stock  acquisitions. Our empirical identification relies on  policy 
initiatives that exogenously increase stock liquidity.  
 
 
 
JEL classification: G30, G34 
Keywords: Stock Liquidity, Mergers and Acquisitions, Decimalization 
  
                                                           
* We thank Itay Goldstein, Jarrad Harford, Tom Shohfi, Jason Sturgess (Discussant), Cong Wang (Discussant), and seminar 
participants at Cass Mergers and Acquisitions Conference, China International Conference in Finance, Peking University, 
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Singapore Management University, and Tsinghua University for helpful comments. We 
also thank Yuan Meng for her excellent research assistance. All remaining errors are our own. 

=== PAGE 3 ===
2 
 
“The Covance board also discussed with Goldman Sachs [its financial 
advisor] the liquid market for LabCorp stock, which would allow Covance 
stockholders to either keep or trade the stock portion of the consideration.”  
 
From the Board of Directors of Covance Inc. on its 
proposed merger with Laboratory Corp of America
 
 
 
1. Introduction 
The value of stock liquidity is well known and it has been shown to have a significant impact on many 
corporate decisions.1 However, much less is known about the effect of stock liquidity  – both of the 
acquirer and the target – on merger & acquisitions (henceforth “M&A”), even though M&A are among 
the most important decisions made by firms. This paucity of research is in sharp contrast to the reality 
connoted by various anecdotes, such as the quote above, that target  firms’ shareholders value the 
liquidity of acquirers’ stock . 2  Moreover, market -level stock liquidity has experienced substantial 
changes following serial regulatory actions, such as the shift in the minimum tick size from $1/8th to 
$1/16th in 1997  and the introduction of decimalization in 2002. These regulatory changes  heighten 
the necessity of understanding the  role of stock liquidity in the market for corporate control . A 
germane paper is Maksimovic, Phillips, and Yang (2013) that shows that public firms participate more 
actively than private firms in merger waves and  stock liquidity increases a firm’s acquisitiveness : 
however, it remains unknown whether and how stock liquidity may affect deal terms and value creation 
from a deal.  
In this paper, w e propose and test an acquisition currency hypothesis about the effect of stock 
liquidity on M&A , which goes beyond the valuation and governance implications of stock liquidity 
documented in the literatur e. Our hypothesis is that higher liquidity of the acquirer’s stock, and 
correspondingly lower liquidity  of the target , can render an acquirer more attractive to target 
shareholders and increase the likelihood that the target will accept stock as the acquisition currency. 
Using a stylized model, we argue that greater liquidity of the merged firm would allow shorter -term 
investors of the target firm to trade their stock more quickly and with lower price impact. For most 
target shareholders, greater liquidity of the acquirer’s stock mitigates the key difference between stock 
and cash payment in terms of liquidity provision while maintaining benefits that are unique to stock 
payment (such as deferred capital gains taxes). 
                                                           
1 See, e.g., Fang, Noe, and Tice (2009), Jayaraman and Milbourn (2012), Bharath, Jayaraman, and Nagar (2013), Edmans, 
Fang, and Zur (2013), Fang, Tian, and Tice (2014), and Back, Collin-Dufresne, Fos, Li, and Ljungqvist (2017).  
2 There are many other similar cases, such as  Northwest Bancshares Inc. acquir ing LNB Bancorp Inc., FNB Corp. 
acquiring PVF Capital Corp., and Pacific Premier Bancorp Inc. acquir ing San Diego Trust Bank. In all these deals, the 
acquirers’ stock liquidity was considered to be an important factor in the M&A consideration by the targets. According to 
the disclosures on the deal negotiation process, comments such as “the lack of liquidity in acquirer B’s stock” and “the 
liquidity of each party’s stock” are often made in the boards’ explanations on either accepting or rejecting a deal.   

=== PAGE 4 ===
3 
 
Our acquisition currency hypothesis delivers a number of testable predictions. First, since acquirers 
with more liquid stock (relative to target) are likely to make stock acquisitions on better terms, they are 
more likely to both make acquisitions and pay with stock, ceteris paribus. Second, more liquid acquirers 
are expected to pay lower premiums in stock acquisitions, but not in cash acquisitions. This is because 
target shareholders will be willing to pay a “liquidity premium” (i.e., accept a lower offer)  for an 
acquirer’s more liquid stock, while the liquidity of the acquirer’s stock is irrelevant in cash acquisitions. 
Third, anticipating the benefits of using more liquid stock in stock acquisitions, firms will take 
deliberate steps to improve stock liquidity prior to stock acquisi tions. Finally, the more liquid the 
acquirer’s stock (relative to target), the more favorable the acquirer’s deal announcement abnormal 
returns are expected to be for stock acquisitions. This is because acquirers’ shareholders gain more (or 
lose less) from acquisitions paid with more liquid stock since they pay lower deal premiums.  
      Furthermore, our acquisition currency hypothesis predicts that the sensitivity of stock payment 
and deal premium  to acquirer’s liquidity in M&A could vary for targets with different shareholder 
characteristics. For instance, compared with long-term investors, short-term investors in the target will 
be more concerned with the acquirer’s liquidity due to their relatively greater need to trade after the 
acquisition.  
To test the predictions of our acquisition currency model, we use a sample of M&A by publicly-
listed acquirers over 1985 -2018. Using two different measures for stock liquidity , we find strong 
empirical support for our empirical predictions. Our first empir ical result is that the likelihood of a 
firm making an acquisition and, in particular, a stock acquisition, is positively related to the firm’s stock 
liquidity. This relationship is not only statistically significant, but also e conomically meaningful. The 
probability of making an acquisition increases by over 2.1 percent age points  after a one standard 
deviation increase in a firm’s liquidity, while the unconditional probability of acquisition for the sample 
firms is 7.5 percent. Also, the fraction of the acquisition payment that is made with stock increases 
with the acquirer’s stock liquidity relative to the target’s liquidity in deals involving public targets. 
Second, for stock deals, the percentage premium paid by the acquirer to the target is negatively 
related to the acquirer’s stock liquidity relative to the target’s.3 A one standard deviation increase in the 
acquirer-target liquidity difference is associated with a reduction of at least 4.46 percentage points in 
the premium paid, depending on the liquidity measure. This is economically significant, when 
compared with the average premium of 26.8 percent  in acquisitions of public targets in our sample. 
Interestingly, a similar relation is not found in cash -paid deals, consistent with our claim that the 
acquirer’s stock liquidity is irrelevant to target shareholders in these deals. Furthermore, as discussed, 
                                                           
3 In robustness tests, we examine the impact of both  the acquirer’s and the target’s liquidity separately. We find that the 
percentage premium is negatively related to the acquirer’s liquidity and positively related to the target’s liquidity. See more 
details in Section 4.3.1.  

=== PAGE 5 ===
4 
 
because investors with long investment horizons are less likely to trade soon after deal completion, we 
expect them to value relative sto ck liquidity less than short er-term investors. Consistent with this 
notion, we find a weaker sensitivity of stock -payment and deal premium to relative-liquidity in deals 
where targets have more long-term investors in their investor base.  
Both stock liquidity and acquisition decisions are endogenous. To identify the causal effect of stock 
liquidity, we follow the literature (e.g., Fang, Noe, and Tice, 2009; Edmans, Fang, and Zur, 2013; Fang, 
Tian, and Tice, 2014) and adopt the shift in the minimum tick size in 1997 and decimalization as two 
quasi-natural experiments that engendered an exogenous increase in stock liquidity. The tick-size shift 
in 1997 and decimalization have been shown to have narrowe d the bid-ask spreads substantially and 
improved market quality (e.g., Bessembinder, 2003; Furfine 2003). Using various estimation methods 
based on the two experiments , we confirm the effect of stock liquidity on the likelihood o f stock 
acquisitions and the acquisition premium for stock deals. These results indicate that the effect of stock 
liquidity is likely causal.  
In further tests we find that, as predicted, firms tend to increase the frequency of earnings guidance 
and conduct stock splits prior to making stock acquisitions. By voluntarily disclosing more information 
than is mandated by regulations, these firms can reduce information asymmetry between insiders and 
investors, which improves liquidity prior to acquisitions (e.g., Diamond and Verrecchia, 1991; Beyer et 
al., 2010). Stock splits can lead to more trading , and thus more informative stock prices, because an 
increase in uninformed trading attracts more informed trading (e.g., Kyle, 1985). As the literature 
shows, and we also confirm, these actions indeed help to increase stock liquidity.4  
Finally, for stock deals, acquirers’ three -day [-1, 1] cumulative abnormal returns (CARs) around 
deal announcements are positively related to the acquirer’s liquidity relative to the target’s. For instance, 
a one standard deviation increase in the acquirer-target liquidity difference is associated with an increase 
in CARs by 0.47%-0.64%, depending on the liquidity measure. The average (median) three-day CARs 
for stock deals involving public targets in our sample is -3.65% (-2.79%). Therefore, the effect of the 
liquidity difference that we document is economically substantial. The value gains associated with more 
liquid acquirers are consistent with paying lower premiums for the targets. Again, consistent with our 
claim that the acquirer’s stock liquidity is irrelevant to target shareholders in cash-paid deals, we do not 
find a similar relation in these deals.  
There are, however, two (non-mutually exclusive) alternative channels – governance and valuation 
channels -- through which liquidity could affect acquisitions . While some of our predictions are 
consistent with those of the alternative channels, others are specific to the acquisition currency 
hypothesis. We rely on these unique predictions to test for the existence of a distinct acquisition 
                                                           
4 See, for instance, Muscarella and Vetsuypens (1996), Coller and Yohn (1997), Lin, Singh, and Yu (2009), and Balakrishnan 
et al. (2014). 

=== PAGE 6 ===
5 
 
currency channel. We first consider the g overnance channel . G reater stock liquidity could reduce 
agency problems  and enhance acquisition quality, either through stronger incentive contract s to 
managers due to reduced  noise in stock prices , or through  the creation of blockholders lead ing to 
better monitoring of managers. 5 At the same time , we are not aware of compelling theoretical 
arguments for why governance should be positively related to a firm’s acquisitiveness. Note that the 
empire-building argument suggests instead a negative relation between governance and a firm’s 
acquisitiveness. Further, the governance channel provides no clear prediction regarding the effect of 
target liquidity on stock payment nor a prediction that the acquisition premium would depend on the 
method of payment (cash or stock), as is predicted by the acquisition currency hypothesis.  
The second alter native that we consider is the v aluation channel. The prediction here is that 
liquidity could affect acquisitions because of the greater price informativeness that comes with greater 
stock liquidity. Hence, target shareholders may be less concerned about being paid with overvalued 
stock when the acquirer’s stock is highly liquid. The more favorable valuation of firms with more liquid 
stocks (Fang, Noe, and Tice, 2009) could also increase firms’ incentives to make acquisitions with stock 
swaps. Under the valuation channel, an illiquid target will be paid lower premium if acquirers are 
concerned about its less-informative stock price and greater valuation uncertainty. We note that while 
the va luation channel could induce firms to rely more on stock -for-stock acquisitions, there is no 
prediction that the relation between acquisition premium and target liquidity would be affected by the 
mode of payment, as is predicted by the acquisition currency hypothesis. 
Lastly, while the effect of investor horizon is predicted and confirmed by the acquisition currency 
channel, it is not implied by either of the alternative hypotheses. 
Our study contributes to several different strands of literature. First, we  add to the literature on 
the effect of stock liquidity on firms’ decisions, governance, and performance. Existing empirical 
studies have shown that the stock liquidity is positively associated with firm value (Fang, Noe, and 
Tice, 2009), and can affect ex ecutive compensation (Jayaraman and Milbourn, 2012), corporate 
governance (e.g., Bharath, Jayaraman, and Nagar, 2013; Edmans, Fang, and Zur, 2013; Back, Collin-
Dufresne, Fos, Li, and Ljungqvist, 2017), and corporate innovations (Fang, Tian, and Tice, 2014). More 
generally, our findings support the notion that stock market s have real effects, as suggested by a 
burgeoning literature (see Bond, Edmans, and Goldstein (2012) for a summary).  
We show that stock liquidity has real implications for firms’ acquisition decisions and helps to 
lower deal premiums paid, which enhances the deal value for acquirers. Prior studies have focused 
primarily on the (il)liquidity of targets and examined its implication on deal characteristics and pricing.6 
                                                           
5 Roosenboom, Sch lingemann, and Vasconcelos (201 4) find  support for greater acquirer stock liquidity enhancing the 
acquisition process through the governance channel when targets are public firms and the acquisition is in stock. 
6 See, for example, Shleifer and Vishny (199 2), Koeplin, Sarin, and Shapiro (2000), Schlingemann, Stulz, and Walkling 
(2002), Officer (2007), and Massa and Xu (2013). 

=== PAGE 7 ===
6 
 
For instance, Koeplin,  Sarin, and Shapiro (2000) and Officer (2007) document a price discount for 
unlisted targets because sellers cannot trade their equity easily.7 Massa and Xu (2013) find that acquiring 
a more liquid target is associated with an increase in the liquidity of the combined firm, and public 
acquirers prefer more liquid targets and are willing to pay more for them. They, however, do not 
consider the impact of acquirers’ liquidity. This is in contrast to our focus on stock liquidity of acquirers 
jointly with the liquidity of targets. As discussed, Maksimovic, Phillips, and Yang (2013) is an exception, 
although their focus is the difference between public and private firms and how their buying/selling 
of plant assets is affected by macro and financial variables and merger waves. Among their key findings 
are that there are productivity gains from acquisitions/divestments of assets; there are fundamental 
productivity differences between public and private firms; public firms gain more from acquisitions 
and this may be a reason for these firms to chooses to be public.  Although they do show (along with 
various macro and financial variables) that stock market liquidity (and valuation) is a predictor of asset 
acquisitions/sales, there is no analysis of whether liquidity actu ally influences the stock acquisitions 
and the acquisition price, which are key elements of our paper. 8 And, unlike our paper, they do not 
address the endogeneity of stock liquidity.9  
Our study proposes a novel hypothesis about the benefits of liquid stock as acquisition currency 
and provides consistent evidence in support of it above and beyond the impact of stock liquidity on a 
firm’s acquisitiveness.  Our finding that acquirer’s stock liquidity is positively related to acquirer’s 
announcement returns in stock acquisitions of publicly -listed targets is consistent with Roosenboom, 
Schlingemann, and Vasconcelos (2014). However, they focus primarily on the relation between stock 
liquidity and acquirer returns in acquisitions of unlisted targets, scenarios where they argue that 
institutional monitoring through voice is more important than the threat of exit.  
More importantly, unlike all of the above studies,  we also examine how firms proactively manage 
stock liquidity prior to M&A in anticipation of the impact that stock liquidity has on M&A and the 
mode of payment. The literature has documented that firms may take actions to improve stock liquidity 
in general (e.g., Coller and Yohn, 1997; Lin, Singh, and Yu, 2009). Our results suggest that the timing 
of some liquidity improvements may be motivated by acquisition plans. 10 In addition, we are among 
the first to address the potential endogeneity of stock liquidity and delineate a causal impact of stock 
liquidity on M&As.   
                                                           
7 Fuller, Netter, and Stegemoller (2002) posit that the better market  reactions to acquisitions of private targets versus 
acquisitions of public targets may be due to such a liquidity discount for private targets.   
8 Since these are not of primary concern for our analysis, we control for many of the time series and macro effects by using 
Industry×Year fixed effects in most of our regression models. 
9 There is also a literature that links the IPO decision to the need for acquisition currency (e.g., Brau and Fawcett, 2006; 
and Celikyurt, Sevilir, and Shivdasani, 2010). 
10 Literature on acquirer actions prior to s tock acquisitions suggests that, in their attempt to push up t heir stock price,  
acquirers also tend to manage earnings up (Erickson and Wang, 1999; Louis, 2004), disclose good news or withhold bad 
news (Ge and Lennox, 2011), or manipulate financial media coverage (Ahern and Sosyura, 2014). 

=== PAGE 8 ===
7 
 
This study also enhances our understanding of the determinants of modes of payment in M&A. 
The literature has examined acquisition payment choice based on adverse selection, corporate control, 
and financial capacity.11 As per this literature, factors that bidders consider include debt capacity when 
financing with cash, loss of corporate control from ownership dilution, the informational opaqueness 
of target assets, and whether they perceive their stock as being overvalued when financing with stock. 
For targets, uncertainty  regarding acquirers’ growth opportunities and valuations as well as deferred 
tax benefits with stock payment are among the main considerations when deciding whether to accept 
stock payment. The listing status of targets is often used as a proxy for the liquidity needs of target 
shareholders in the examination of their cash preference (e.g., Faccio and Masulis, 2005). But there is 
little known about how acquirers’ stock liquidity may affect corporate M&A activity and acquisition 
payment choice.12  
2. Hypothesis Development and Discussion of Alternative Channels 
There are several channels through which stock liquidity could potentially affect M&A, the mode of 
payment, and the acquisition premium. We start with the development of our acquisition currency 
hypothesis as a particular liquidity channel. We then discuss the alternative channels and elaborate on 
tests that allow us to distinguish our hypothesis from the alternatives.  
2.1. The Acquisition Currency Hypothesis 
We offer a simple model to sharpen intuition and develop predictions. For brevity, the model is 
presented in Appendix B and we discuss the main intuition here. Our main hypothesis is that, in stock-
for-stock acquisitions, target shareholders prefer stock that is more liquid. This preference derives 
from future trading costs that target shareholders expe ct to bear. On account of such a preference, 
target shareholders would be willing to accept a lower acquisition premium from acquirers with more 
liquid stock. Ceteris paribus, we expect the acquisition premium to be decreasing in the liquidity of 
acquirer stock, while increasing in the liquidity of target stock. As a consequence, acquirers with more 
liquid stock are more likely to engage in acquisitions and to pay in stock when they acquire. This leads 
to our first testable prediction: 
Prediction 1: Firms with more liquid stock are more likely to make acquisitions and pay for these acquisitions with 
stock, ceteris paribus. Also, the more liquid is acquirers’ stock relative to targets’, the greater the fraction of payment in 
acquirer’s stock.  
                                                           
11 There is a large literature on acquisition payment method (e.g., Hansen, 1987; Travlos, 1987; Stulz, 1988; Fishman, 1989; 
Amihud, Lev, and Travlos, 1990; Berkovitch and Narayanan, 1990; Eckbo, Giammarino, and Heinkel, 1 990; Brown and 
Ryngaert, 1991; Martin, 1996; Ghosh and Ruland, 1998; Eckbo and Thorburn, 2000; and Fuller, Netter, and Stegemoller, 
2002). See Faccio and Masulis (2005) for a literature review. 
12 The literature has linked stock liquidity to lower reliance on debt financing and to lower investment banking fees in 
seasoned equity offerings (e.g., Butler, Grullon, and Weston, 2005; Bharath, Pasquariello, and Wu, 2009; Lipson and Mortal, 
2009). But less has dealt directly with how acquirers’ stock liquidity affects the method of payment.  

=== PAGE 9 ===
8 
 
The above argum ents imply that when the cost of paying with cash is greater, as with cash 
constrained firms, the marginal benefit of stock liquidity and the use of stock as an acquisition currency 
will be correspondingly greater. This leads to an extension of Prediction 1, that is, the likelihood of stock 
acquisitions should be more sensitive to acquirer liquidity for a financially constrained firm. 
Our next prediction follows from the above argument that the acquisition premium is lower if the 
acquirer’s (target’s) stock is highly liquid  (illiquid). We note that this prediction applies only t o stock-
for-stock acquisitions, but not cash deals, because acquirers’ stock liquidity is not relevant for the 
pricing of an acquisition financed with cash. We can state the second testable prediction as:  
      Prediction 2: In stock-financed acquisitions, the higher the liquidity of acquirers’ stock relative to that of targets’, the 
lower will be the acquisition premium paid. This is not the case in cash-financed acquisitions.   
      Knowing that target shareholders will prefer more liquid stock in a stock-for-stock deal, which can 
in turn put acquirers’ shareholders in a more favorable position in the exchange (e.g., paying lower 
premium), acquirers have an incentive to increase their stock liquidity in anticipation of a stock deal in 
the near future. They can, for instance, improve their transparency in the stock market by disclosing 
more information than what regulations mandate (e.g., providing more informative earnings guidance). 
They can also conduct stock splits to facilitate more trading by uninformed investors. Market makers 
can thus provide liquidity services at lower cost, which would result in higher propensity of trading 
and increased liquidity. It has been argued that with a higher level of trading, the stock price can become 
more informative if the greater presence of uninformed trading attracts more trading from informed 
investors (Kyle, 1985).  
      The extant literature provides evidence that enhanced information disclosure and stock splits help 
to increase stock liquidity. For instance, Coller and Yohn (1997) find that bid -ask spread reduces 
following management forecasts, while Lin, Singh, and Yu (2009) find declining incidence of no trading 
and lower liquidity risk following stock splits.13 This leads to our third prediction: 
       Prediction 3: Acquirers are more likely to take actions, such as providing earnings guidance and conducting stock 
splits, to increase their stock liquidity prior to stock deals. 
       It follows from our earlier predictions that firms with more liquid stocks will be better positioned 
to make acquisitions and pay lower premiums than firms that are otherwise similar but have less liquid 
stocks. This leads to our fourth testable prediction: 
Prediction 4: The more liquid the acquirer’s stock is relative to that of the target’s stock, the more the gains to 
acquirer shareholders in a stock deal, ceteris paribus. 
                                                           
13 Several other papers find similar evidence. For instance, Balakrishnan , et al. (2014) show that firms respond to an 
exogenous loss of public information by providing more timely and informative earnings guidance, which result s in an 
improvement in liquidity. Muscarella and Vetsuypens (1996) study splits of American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) that are 
not associated with splits in their home -country stock and argue that the positive announcement return of stock splits 
reflect the increase in liquidity. 

=== PAGE 10 ===
9 
 
Note that the above analysis hinges on the preference of target shareholders for more liquid stock, 
and thus t he investment horizons of shareholders in targets are expected to matter. Due to their 
relatively long horizon in trading needs, long-term investors are likely to value acquirer’s stock liquidity 
less. Hence, we expect that, ceteris paribus , the sensitivity to the acquirer’s stock liquidity of stock 
payment, deal premium, and value gain to the acquirer  will decrease with ownership by long-term 
investors in the target. 
An issue that deserves discussion is the anticipated liquidity of the post -acquisition merged firm. 
This would be the liquidity that target firm shareholders would expect to face after the acquisition. In 
our model (Appendix B), we consider various factors that determine stock liquidity of the merged firm. 
The first is based on the nature of the underlying assets and informational frictions that could make 
valuation difficult for outside investors. For expositional ease, we take the liquidity of the merged firm 
to be the value weighted average of the liquidities of the target and acquirer firm. The potential decrease 
in liquidity after the acquisition of an illiquid target is taken to be costly to the acquirer, referred to as 
a dissynergy effect of liquidity . However, we assume that liquidity of the merged firm can also be 
affected by the firm engaging in costly activities such as enhanced disclosure and stock splits in order 
to improve stock liquidity.  Hence, in equilibrium, the liquidity of the merged firm is the outcome of 
the both the underlying assets as well optimal actions by the firm to improve its liquidity. Our analysis 
implies that if the potential target is relatively large and illiquid, its impact on the liquidity of the post-
acquisition firm may be sufficiently negative such that the acquirer either foregoes the acquisition or 
chooses to pay for it with cash. 
As shown in Appendix B in greater detail, our results show that acquirers are much larger than 
targets in most cases. Among the few rare cases where targets are slightly larger, they are more liquid 
than acquirers and hence the dissynergy effect is not an issue. Instead, the dissynergy issue appears to 
be a more serious concern in cases where targets tend to be more illiquid than acquirers. But, these are 
also precisely cases where acquirers are much larger than targets. Thus, due to the targets’ relatively 
small size, the dissynergy effect is small. As such, while the dissynergy effect is a legitimate concern in 
theory, it does not seem to be a significant issue empirically in terms of the observed stock acquisitions. 
Moreover, consistent with acquirers being likely to take actions to increase their post -acquisition 
liquidity, we find that acquirers’ post-acquisition liquidity  is almost always greater than their pre -
acquisition liquidity. This makes the potential dissynergy effect even less of a concern.  
2.2. Alternative Channels  
Governance: A channel that has received theoretical and empirical attention in the extant literature is the 
potential effect of liquidity on the firm’s governance and incentive contracting. It has been argued (e.g., 
Holmstrom and Tirole, 1993) that greater stock liqui dity leads to stock prices that are more accurate 
in terms of reflecting firm value and managerial performance. As a result, managers could be offered 

=== PAGE 11 ===
10 
 
stronger stock-based incentive contracts, thereby reducing agency problems and enhancing firm value. 
Greater stock liquidity could also ease the formation of blockholdings and strengthen monitoring (e.g., 
Maug, 1998; Edmans, et al., 2013). On the other hand, greater liquidity could have adverse effects on 
governance if lower costs of exiting stock positions reduce incentives of blockholders/institutions to 
monitor (e.g., Bhide, 1993). Roosenboom, Schlingemann, and Vasconcelos (2014) find evidence that 
the effect of acquirer liquidity in stock acquisitions is affected by whether the target is a public or 
private firm. For private targets, acquirer liquidity is associated with weaker acquirer stock market 
announcement reactions, though the opposite is the case for public targets. Their interpretation is that 
the monitoring role of voice and exit differs in these cases. 
      As discussed above, the acquisition currency channel has predictions that are distinct from those 
of the governance channel. For instance, the governance channel has no clear predictions in terms of 
the effect of acquirer’s liquidity on its acquisitiveness or the effect of target’s liquidity on stock payment, 
as predicted by our acquisition currency hypothesis. Furthermore, it could be argued that an illiquid 
target, if it was also poorly governed, would command a lower acquisition premium. However, under 
the governance channel, the relation between target liquidity and premium should not depend on 
whether the acquisition is paid in stock or in cash. This is different from the acquisition currency 
hypothesis which predicts that the target liquidity and deal premium relation should hold only in 
acquisitions that are paid in stock, not cash. 
Valuation: A second channel for the effect of stock liquidity on M&A could operate through acquirer’s 
valuation and reduction in asymmetric information. Hence, with greater  acquirer liquidity, target 
shareholders may be less concerned about being paid with overvalued stock. Ove rvaluation is a 
concern since acquirer stock overvaluation can motivate stock acquisitions (e.g., Shleifer and Vishny, 
2003).14 Similarly, it is plausible that an illiquid target might receive a lower premium if acquirers are 
concerned about less informative stock prices and greater valuation uncertainty. However, empirical 
predictions differ between the valuation and acquisition c urrency channels in terms of the effect of 
target liquidity and mode of payment on the acquisition premium. According to the valuation channel, 
as with the governance channel, the lower valuation of an illiquid target should imply a lower premium 
regardless of whether the target is acquired with stock or with cash. On the other hand, the acquisition 
currency channel predicts that target liquidity should affect the acquisition premium only when the 
payment is in stock but not when it is in cash. 
                                                           
14 There are several other studies that examine stock acquisitions with overvalued stock of the acquirer; these include 
Rhodes-Kropf, Robinson, and Viswanathan (2005), Ang and Cheng (2006) , Dong et al. (2006), and Fu, Lin, and Offi cer 
(2013). 

=== PAGE 12 ===
11 
 
     Lastly, as discussed above, the investment horizon of target shareholders matters under our 
acquisition currency hypothesis. The alternative governance and valuation hypotheses have no such 
predictions. 
3. Data and Summary Statistics 
3.1. Data and sample 
We obtain our data on M&A from Thomson One Securities Data Company’s (SDC) U.S. Mergers and 
Acquisitions database. We start with all M&A that were announced between January 1, 1985 and 
December 31, 2018.  We then impose the following selection criteria in reaching the final sample of 
10,627 deals: (1) the acquirer is publicly listed and has accounting and financial information in 
Compustat and CRSP, (2) the acquirer acquires more than 50% of the target, (3) the target is either a 
public or a private firm, (4) the deal value is at least $5 0 million, (5) information on deal payment 
method and status, acquirer characteristics (to be discussed below), and target characteristics (for public 
targets) is available, 15 and (6) the deal is completed by October 2019. 16 We exclude subsidiary targets 
because the payment of acquisitions of subsidiary targets is mostly in cash and, thus, acquirer’s stock 
liquidity is less likely to play a significant role in the acquisition.  
      The tests of Prediction 1 and Prediction 3 require the inclusion of all firm-years, whether or not there 
is an acquisition. We thus start with all publicly-listed firms in Compustat/CRSP and require data on 
a firm’s main characteristics in a year to be available in order for it to be included in the sample. These 
characteristics include two measures of stock liquidity, total assets, market-to-book ratio, leverage, asset 
tangibility, stock return, and return volatility.  The final sample consists of 15 ,670 firms and 142,053 
firm-years for the period of 1984-2018.17    
3.2. Summary statistics 
Given our large sample size, we choose stock liquidity measures based on daily, instead of intraday, 
data for computational ease. We use two measures widely used in the literature that are related to price 
impact and spread, respectively . The first is  Amihud’s (2002) illiquidity ratio. Goyenko, Holden, and 
Trzcinka (2009) find that this measure captures price impact most accurately among liquidity measures 
based on daily data. Following Amihud and Mendelson (1986), the second is the relative bid-ask spread 
which has been found to be negatively related to liquidity characteristics such  as trading volume and 
price continuity. Major M&A deal characteristics, such as method of payment and deal premium , are 
constructed following the convention in the literature. We also use a set of control variables that have 
                                                           
15 Our main findings are robust if we exclude financial institutions from the sample. The results are shown in Table O-8 of 
the online appendix. 
16 The date on which we last accessed the M&A data.  
17 We start our sample one year earlier than the M&A sample starting year because our tests involve the examination of the 
impact of a firm’s lagged stock liquidity on its acquisition decision.  

=== PAGE 13 ===
12 
 
been shown in the literature to affect a firm’s acquisition decisions, method of payment, and deal 
premium. Definitions of all variables are provided in Appendix A. To red uce the impact of outliers, 
we winsorize all continuous variables at the 1st and 99th percentiles.18  
Table 1 reports summary statistics of key firm and deal characteristics for sample firms. Panel A 
presents summary statistics of Compustat/CRSP sample firms’ characteristics. The average (median) 
Amihud’s Illiquidity ratio is –6.83 (–5.79), while the average (median) bid-ask spread is 4.57 (4.23). The 
Amihud and the natural logarithm of bid-ask spread measures are multiplied by “-1” so that we can 
interpret them as measures of liquidity, rather than illiquidity. Acquisitions occur in about 7.5% of the 
firm-years, while slightly less than half of them are paid in stock. Panel B shows characteristics of 
acquirers in 3,032 deals where the target is publicly listed. Consistent with Prediction 1, the average 
acquirer ha s higher stock liquidity (as per both measures) than the average Compustat -CRSP firm 
(reported in Panel A), and their differences in both means and medians are statistically significant 
(results of statistical tests are not tabulated for brevity). Also, acquirers have higher prior-year industry-
adjusted stock returns and market -to-book ratios, but lower stock return volatility than the average 
Compustat-CRSP firm.  
Panel C reports characteristics of the public targets in the 3,032 deals. On average, public targets 
appear to have lower liquidity, but significantly higher market-to-book ratios, than acquirers. Panel D 
presents characteristics of the deals involving public targets. In an average deal, 57.5% of the payment 
is in stock and the acquirer pays a premium of 26.8% over the target’s stock price as of two days prior 
to the deal announcement. The average (median) three -day announcement abnormal returns for 
acquirers are –2.0% (–1.4%). 15.3% of the deals are tender offers and there are competing bidders in 
6.9% of the deals.   
4. Main Empirical Results 
In this section, we present  the methodologies and results from our empirical tests. We test our 
predictions regarding the effect of liquidity on f irms’ acquisition decisions, deal premiums, and deal 
announcement returns as well as firms’ actions to influence stock liquidity prior to acquisitions.     
4.1. The Decision to Acquire and Pay for the Acquisition with Stock  
To test Prediction 1 about the effect of stock liquidity on the likelihood of firms making acquisitions 
and the likelihood of acquisitions being paid with stock, we start with an OLS estimation to assess the 
                                                           
18 For instance, the lowest (highest) cumulative abnormal announ cement returns (CARs) for acquirers in the sample is -
63% (59%). After winsorization, the lowest (highest) CAR is -21% (15%). However, we have also conducted our main tests 
without winsorizing all the continuous variables and find that our main findings ar e robust (untabulated for brevity but 
available upon request).  

=== PAGE 14 ===
13 
 
relation between a firm ’s stock liquidity and its acquisition decisi ons. However, stock liquidity is not 
exogenously given. Indeed, our hypothesis is that firms may take deliberate actions to endogenously 
increase stock liquidity prior to making stock acquisitions. Also, failure to control for any omitted 
factor that is related to both firms’ liquidity and acquisition decisions can result in a biased estimate of 
the effect of liquidity. To address this empirical challenge, we follow the literature (e.g., Fang, Noe, 
and Tice, 2009; Edmans, Fang, and Zur, 2013; Fang, Tian, and Tice, 2014; Brogaard, Li, and Xia, 2017) 
and exploit two quasi-natural experiments that utilize policy changes in the minimum tick size for 
quotes and trades on the three major U.S. exchanges , which serve as an exogenous shock to fi rms’ 
stock liquidity. We now present our analysis based on  OLS regressions as well as four identification 
strategies derived from the two quasi-natural experiments.  
4.1.1. OLS Regressions 
We use the sample of all Compustat -CRSP firms and estimate the following l inear probability model 
to analyze the effect of a firm’s stock liquidity on its acquisition decision: 
 𝑌𝑖𝑡 = 𝛼0 + 𝛼1 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡−1 + 𝛼2 𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑠𝑖𝑡−1 +  𝜇𝑡 + 𝜀𝑖𝑡 .                                 (1) 
𝑌𝑖𝑡 is an indicator variable that equals one if firm i makes an acquisition (or, alternatively, stock 
acquisition) in year t, and zero otherwise. 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖,𝑡−1 is firm 𝑖′𝑠 stock liquidity as of year t–1 and 
𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑠𝑖,𝑡−1  include a set of firm 𝑖′𝑠 characteristics as of year t–1, such as Leverage, Leverage, 
PPE/Asset, Market-to-Book, Ind_stock_return, Firm Size, and Volatility. Definitions of these variables are 
provided in Appendix A. The first three variables capture a firm’s ability to issue debt in financing a 
potential acquisition. Market-to-Book and Ind_stock_return are included to control for the firm’s valuation 
and performance, respectively. We use a firm’s stock volatility, Volatility, to capture its information 
environment that may affect the firm’s acquisition decision. As per Prediction 1, we expect a significantly 
positive coefficient on 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖,𝑡−1 for both of the dependent variables – the acquisition indicator 
and th e stock acquisition indicator.  In all the regressions here and throughout the paper, unless 
otherwise specified, we include the within industry-year fixed effects (industries defined using Fama-
French 48-industry classification) to account for all time-series difference in firm acquisition decisions 
within industries . 19 Robust standard errors are clustered by firm to allow for within-firm error 
correlation since firms may, for instance, be involved in a series of acquisitions and these acquisitions 
may be correlated.  
Panel A of Table 2 presents the results obtained from estimating Specification (1) in the full sample. 
In C olumns (1) and (2) , the dependent variable is  a firm ’s decision to acquire . The estimated 
coefficients on both liquidity measures (the negative of Amihud’s illiquidity ratio and bid-ask spread) 
have the predicted positive sign and are statistically significant at the 1% level. This suggests that, ceteris 
                                                           
19 Therefore, the potential impact of merger waves that often occur within industries is accounted for.  

=== PAGE 15 ===
14 
 
paribus, firms are more likely to make acquisitions when their stock liquidity is higher. Our estimates 
suggest that the probability of acquisition increases by 3.2 percentage points and 2.1 percentage points 
after a one standard deviation decrease in Amihud’s il liquidity ratio and bid -ask spread, respectively. 
Note that the unconditional probability of an acquisition by the sample firms is 7.5 percent. Thus, the 
impact of stock liquidity on the likelihood of making an acquisition is economically significant. We also 
find that the likelihood of acquisition is positively related to prior-year industry-adjusted stock returns, 
firm size, and market-to-book ratio and negatively related to change in leverage  and asset tangibility, 
suggesting that larger firms with better stock performance , less tangible assets,  or more growth 
opportunities as well as firms with a decline in leverage are more likely to make acquisitions. 
In Columns (3) and (4), we repeat the analysis with another binary dependent variable that equals 
one for stock acquisitions  and zero otherwise . Consistent with our prediction, a firm’s likelihood of 
making a stock acquisition also increases with its stock liquidity. Specifically, the estimated coefficients 
on both stock liquidity measures are  positive and statistically significant at  the 1% level. Compared 
with its effect on the likelihood of acquisition, the economic impact of stock liquidity on the likelihood 
of a stock acquisition is even greater. The probability of stock acquisition increases by 2. 11 percent 
points and 0.33 percent points for a one standard deviation decrease in Amihud’s illiquidity ratio and 
bid-ask spread, respectively, while the unconditional probability of stock acquisition is only 3.1 percent. 
We also find that the likelihood of stock acquisition is significantly related to certain firm characteristics. 
A firm is more likely to make stock acquisitions when its prior -year industry-adjusted stock returns, 
stock volatility,  and mark et-to-book ratio are higher, when its assets are less tangible , or when its 
leverage is lower.  
We conduct two  robustness checks with different estimation methods  and report the results  in 
Table O-1 of the Online Appendix. In Panel A, we estimate equation (1) with firm fixed effects  in 
addition to year fixed effects and cluster standard errors by firm . Exploiting the within-firm variation 
in firms’ acquisition decisions allows us to control for time-invariant firm-specific characteri stics, 
which might not be captured by the industry -year fixed effects. All the findings continue to hold. In 
Panel B, we show that our results are robust when we estimate equation (1) with a logit model including 
industry-year dummies and robust standard errors clustered at firm level . We prefer the linear 
probability model because it: (1) allows for interaction terms without having to make adjustments, (2) 
helps us estimate the economic significance of our results more easily and intuitively, and (3) makes it 
easy to control for either industry-year or firm fixed effects.  
As discussed in Section 2, the beneficial role of stock liquidity should be more pronounced in firms 
that are financially constrained and, thus, have less access to cash to pay for acquisitions. As such, we 
examine whether the effect of stock liquidity on the decision to make stock acquisitions is stronger in 

=== PAGE 16 ===
15 
 
firms that are financially constrained. We use three measures of financial constraints based on Kaplan 
and Zingales (1997), Whited and Wu (2006), and Hadlock-Pierce Index (2010), respectively. 20 Our 
sample is divided into terciles every year based on the three respective measures and firms in the middle 
tercile are dropped. A dummy variable, Constraint Dummy, is then defined to be equal to one if a firm 
is in the most-constrained tercile and zero if it is in the least-constrained tercile in the given year. We 
augment the linear probability model based on equation (1) by interacting 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖,𝑡−1  with 
𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑠𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛𝑡 𝐷𝑢𝑚𝑚𝑦𝑖,𝑡−1 . We predict a positive coefficient on the interaction term, indicating a 
stronger relation between stock liquidity and the likelihood of stock acquisition for financially -
constrained firms. The results, reported in Panel B of Table 2, are consistent with this prediction. The 
estimated coefficients on the interaction term are positive and statistically significant for both liquidity 
measures, while the coefficients on the liquidity measures themselves remain strongly positive. 21 This 
finding provides further support for our prediction about the beneficial role of stock liquidity in 
acquisitions.  
4.1.2. Difference-in-Differences Estimation: Decimalization in 2001 
Our first identification strategy is to use a Difference-in-Differences (DID) approach to determine the 
effect that an exogenous change in stock liquidity around decimalization in 2001 has on a firm ’s 
acquisition decision. This approach compares the acquisition decisions of a sample of treatment firms 
that experienced the most significant increases in stock liquidity (top tercile) around decimalization in 
2001 with the acquisition decisions of a closely matched sample of control firms that are otherwise 
similar but experienced the least significant increases in stock liquidity (bottom tercile). 
The NYSE and Amex switched from fractional pricing to decimal pricing in January  2001 while 
NASDAQ did the same in April 2001. The change to decimalization has been show n to have 
substantially narrowed bid-ask spreads and improved market quality (e.g., Bessembinder, 2003; Furfine 
2003). Such an exchange policy initiative changes stock liquidity exogenously because it directly targets 
liquidity, but it is unlikely to directly affect firms’ acquisition decisions. Moreover, there is heterogeneity 
across firms in the stock liquidity changes surrounding decimalization as different stocks are affected 
differently. Both the exogeneity of the shock to stock liquidity and the cross-sectional variation in the 
magnitude of the shock are critical to our use of the DID approach.  
                                                           
20 Hadlock-Pierce Index is calculated as -0.737 x Firm size + 0.043 x Firm age2 ˗ 0.040 x Firm age, where Firm size is the 
natural log of inflation -adjusted book assets, and Firm age is the number of years elapsed since the year the firm first 
appears on CRSP. Both Firm size and Firm age are capped at the 95th percentile.  
21 The only exception is when AMH is used as the liquidity measure and a firm’s financial constraint is measured based on 
Whited and Wu (2006), the interaction term is positive but statistically insignificant.  

=== PAGE 17 ===
16 
 
 The DID approach has some key advantages in identification. First, like the OLS estimation with 
firm fixed-effects above, it rules out the impact of any time-invariant firm-specific factors surrounding 
decimalization. Second, it purges away the impact of omitted  factors that have a common, additive 
effect on both the treatment firms and the control firms . For exampl e, a positive market -wide 
sentiment may lead to active trading (and thus liquidity) and at the same time build up managerial 
overconfidence which could cause a wave of M&A. Third, the exogeneity of the policy initiation helps 
to establish the causality that firms respond to the change in stock liquidity and make acquisition 
decisions accordingly. One caveat with this DID approach is that it does not address the possibility 
that an unobservable factor may affect treatment and control firms differently around decimalization. 
We thus present identification strategies other than the DID approach and explain these below. 
For either measure of stock liquidity (negative AMH or Spread), w e construct the sample s of 
treatment and control firms using propensity score matching. We start with measuring the change in 
liquidity for all sample firms from the pre-decimalization year (year -1) to the post-decimalization year 
(year +1), where year 0 is the firm’s fiscal year in which decimalization occurred. We then sort firms 
into terciles based on the respective change in liquidity ranking. We retain firms in the top (1708 firms 
for AMH and 1698 firms for Spread) and bottom terciles (1729 firms for AMH and 1729 firms for 
Spread), which experience the largest and smallest increase in liquidity following decimalization , 
respectively. We then  find matches between firms in the top tercile and firms in the bottom tercile 
using propensity scores. Specifically, we estimate a probit model in which the dependent variable is set 
to one for firms in  the top tercile and zero for firms in the bottom tercile. To ensure that the DID 
estimator is not driven by any differences in industry or firm characteristics, we include in the model 
all control variables from our baseline regression measured in the year immediately preceding 
decimalization. Robust standard errors are adjusted for heteroskedasticity. 
Columns (1) and (2) in Panel A of Table 3 report the results of the (pre-match) probit regressions 
for both measures of liquidity. The results show that the specification captures a significant amount of 
variation in a firm’s classification into the top/bottom tercile , as indicated by a pseudo -R2 of 36.4% 
(33.2%) and a p-value of 0.00 (0.00) from the χ2 test of overall model fitness in the case of  AMH 
(Spread). We then use the propensity scores (predicted probabilities)  from the two columns to match 
firms in the two groups. Each firm in the top tercile (treatment firm) is matched to the closest firm in 
the bottom tercile (control firm) that is within 0.01 propensity score (i.e., nearest-neighbor propensity 
score matching with 1 neighbor and caliper of 0.01, and with no replacement allowed). In the case of 
multiple matches (ties), we retai n the pair for which the distance between the two firms’ propensity 

=== PAGE 18 ===
17 
 
scores is the smallest. This matching procedure produces 671 treatment -control pairs for AMH and 
746 pairs for Spread. 22 
We next conduct three diagnostic tests to verify that  the propensity score matching procedure 
creates two groups of firms with similar observable pre -decimalization characteristics (except for the 
different impact from decimalization on their stock liquidity). First, we re-run the (post-match) probit 
regressions for the matched sample. The results in Columns (3) and (4) of Panel A, Table 3 show that 
none of the coefficients on the independent variables is statistically significant. The χ2 test of overall 
model fitness with a p -value of 1.00 suggests that we cannot reject the null hypothesis that all of the 
coefficient estimates are insignificantly different from zero.  Moreover, the pseudo-R2 drops drastically 
to less than 1%. Second, in Panel B of Table 3, we plot the distributions of the propensity scores for 
the original sample and the matched sample, respectively. It can be clearly seen that there is a very 
broad area of common support for the treatment and control firms after the matching (almost perfect 
overlap in the distributions). Third, we conduct a univariate comparison of stock liquidity and other 
firm characteristics between treatment and control firms in the pre-decimalization year. As shown in 
Panel C  of Table 3 , none of the differences is statistically significant. In particular, the pre-
decimalization stock liquidity for the two groups of firms is almost identical, although they are affected 
differently by decimalization.  
Lastly, Panel D of Table 3 presents the results of the DID est imation based on the following 
regression specification:  
 𝑌𝑖𝑡 = 𝛽0 + 𝛽1 𝑇𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑑𝑖 + 𝛽2 𝐷𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑚𝑎𝑙𝑖 + 𝛽3 𝑇𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑑∗ 𝐷𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑚𝑎𝑙𝑖 + 𝛽4 𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑠𝑖𝑡−1 + 𝛿𝑗 + 𝜀𝑖𝑡,   (2)                                                                                                                                                      
where Treated is an indicator of a firm being in the treatment group and Decimal is a dummy that equals 
one for the period 2002-onwards and zero for the year 2000 or earlier.  We leave the  year 2001 out  
because decimalization occurred in the middle of that year. We take three examination windows to run 
the regressions, namely [-3, +3], [-2, +2], and [-1, +1], where [-3, +3] refers to the six-year period from 
the pre-decimalization years 1998-2000 to the post-decimalization years 2002-2004 and the other two 
windows are defined accordingly. We find consistent results across different windows. For brevity, we 
report the results for the window [-3, +3] and leave the results for the other two windows in Table O-
2 of the Online Appendix.  𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑠𝑖𝑡−1 refers to the set of independent variables included in the 
baseline regression. We include industry fixed effects, 𝛿𝑗, in the regressions and cluster robust standard 
errors by firm.  
                                                           
22 The numbers of matched pairs are similar to those in Fang, et al. (2014) and Brogaard, et al. (2017). 

=== PAGE 19 ===
18 
 
      In Columns (1) and (2) of Panel D, Table 3,  where we examine a firm’s probability of making 
acquisitions in a year, t he estimated coefficient s 𝛽3 are positive and significant for both liquidity 
measures, indicating that the likelihood of treatment firms making acquisitions increases more 
significantly than for control firms. Based on estimated 𝛽3, the relative increase in the  probability of 
acquisition by treatment firms amounts to a 4.2 percent points (3.0 percent points) in the case of AMH 
(Spread), which is substantial given that the unconditional probability of acquisition by a sample firm 
in a given year is 7.5 percent. The significant difference in the change in the probability of acquisition 
between treatment and control firms is consistent with the different impact of decimalization on their 
stock liquidity. As shown in the literature  (e.g., Brogaard, Li, and Xia, 2017), we find that the relative 
increase in stock liquidity in treatment firms amounts to  39-63% of the pre -decimalization level, 
depending on the liquidity measure. 
In Columns (3) and (4),  where we examine a firm’s probability of making stock acquisitions in a 
year, the results are even stronger. The estimated coefficients 𝛽3 are not only significantly positive, but 
economically more substantial. The relative increase in the probability of stock acquisition by treatment 
firms is 1.9 percent point s (1.9 percent point s) for AMH (Spread), whereas the unconditional 
probability for a sample firm to make stock acquisition in a given year is 3.1 percent. Overall, the results 
suggest that compared with control firms, treatment firms are more likely to conduct acquisitions and 
pay for acquisitions in stock when their stock liquidity experiences an increase following decimalization.  
      To verify that the key parallel trend assumption of DID estimation is satisfied for the treatment 
and control groups, we modify the Decimal dummy in equation (2) with four time indicators for the 
examination window [-3, +3]: Before (t-2 & t-3) for 1998 or 1999, Current for 2001, After (t+1) for 2002, 
and After (t+2 & t+3)  for 2003 or 2004. The original interaction term  Treated*Decimal is replaced by 
each of their interactions with Treated accordingly. The year prior to decimalization,  2000, is thus the 
benchmark year. Note that in this test, the decimalization year 2001 (Current) is included to capture the 
change from the year prior to the decimalization year. The results of regressions w ith this modified 
specification are reported in Panel E of Tab le 3. The coefficient on Before (t-2 & t-3)*Treated captures 
how the change in the dependent variable – the likelihood of (stock) acquisition – from t-2 & t-3 to t-
1 differs between treatment and control firms, and similarly, the coefficient on Current*Treated captures 
the relative change of it from t-1 to t. Neither of them is statistically significant for each measure of 
stock liquidity, confirming the parallel trend  of the likelihood of (stock) acquisition prior to 
decimalization for the two g roups of firms. Instead, the coefficients on After (t+1)*Treated and After 
(t+2 & t+3)*Treated reflect how the relative change of the (stock) acquisition probability evolves from 
t-1 to t+1 and to t+2 & t+3 , respectively. The results show that both coefficients are positive and 
statistically significant with only one exception where the likelihood of stock acquisition is the 

=== PAGE 20 ===
19 
 
dependent variable and Spread is used as the liquidity measure. Thus, the relative increase in the 
probability of (stock) acquisition by treatment firms  occurs in the year right after decimalization and 
continues in the next two years.  
4.1.3. Difference-in-Differences Estimation: Shift in Minimum Tick Size in 1997 
As our second identification strategy, we exploit another policy initiative that exogenously affects stock 
liquidity. The three major U.S. exchanges reduced the minimum tick size from $1/8 th to $1/16th over 
the period of May 7, 1997 to June 24, 1997. Although its impact on stock liquidity is not as substantial 
as decimalization, such a shift in 1997  (“shift in 1997 ” hereinafter) improved stock liquidity  (see 
Chordia, Roll, and Subrahmanyam (2008)). We thus repeat the analysis of decimalization above using 
the shift in 1997.  
      The results in Table 4 echo those in Table 3. In Columns (1) and (2) of Panel A, we show the 
results of the probit regressions that are used to form treatment -control pairs using the propensity 
score matching method. We end up with 1024 pairs for AMH and 998 pairs for Spread. T hree 
diagnostic tests are then conducted, and the results reported in Columns (3) and (4) of Panel A as well 
as in Panels B and C confirm that the treatment and control firms are similar in pre-1997 stock liquidity 
and other characteristics except for the change in liquidity surrounding the tick-size shift in 1997. Panel 
D shows the results of the DID estimation based on equation (2) for the time window [ -3, +3] with 
Decimal being replaced by Shift in 1997, a dummy that equals one for the period after 1998 (including 
1998) and zero for the year 1996 or earlier. 23 Echoing the findings with decimalization in Panel D of 
Table 3, the likelihood of treatment firms making acquisitions, and especially acquisitions paid in stock, 
increases more significantly than that of control firms following the shift in 1997 . In both cases, the 
estimated coefficients 𝛽3 are positive and significant for the two liquidity measures. Panel E of Table 
4, like Panel E of Table 3, confirms the  parallel trend of the likelihood of (stock) acquisition prior to 
Shift in 1997 for treatment and control firms, a key condition for the DID estimation. 
4.1.4. Change in Stock Liquidity Surrounding Decimalization in 2001 and Shift in Minimum Tick Size in 1997 
As noted earlier, one concern with the DID estimation is that it does not eliminate the possibility that 
the estimate can be biased by an unobserved factor affecting treatment and control firms differently 
around the exogenous shock to liquidity. Thus, following Fang, Noe, and Tice (2009) and Edmans, 
Fang, and Zur  (2013), we also examine how the actual change in stock liquidity surrounding 
decimalization and shift in 1997 affects firms’ acquisition decisions. Specifically, using the following 
                                                           
23 The results for the other two windows ([ -1, +1] and [ -2, +2]) , reported in Table O -3 of the O nline Appendix, are 
qualitatively similar.  

=== PAGE 21 ===
20 
 
OLS regression model that is similar to equation (1), we estimate the rel ation between the change in 
firms’ acquisition decisions and the change in stock liquidity surrounding the two policy initiatives: 
∆𝑌𝑖,𝑡−1 𝑡𝑜 𝑡+1 = 𝛾0 +  𝛾1 ∆𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖,𝑡−1 𝑡𝑜 𝑡+1 +  𝛾2 ∆𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑠𝑖,𝑡−1 𝑡𝑜 𝑡+1 + 𝜀𝑖,𝑡−1 𝑡𝑜 𝑡+1 ,      (3) 
where t is the fiscal year during which decimalization or shift in 1997 occurred for firm i.  The implicit 
assumption is that the change in stock liquidity was entirely due to the two policy initiatives, and even 
if part of the change was driven by other factors, these factors are not systematically related with firms’ 
acquisition decisions.  
      The results reported in Table 5 (Panel A for decimalization and Panel B for the shift in 1997) show 
that the change in liquidity around both policy initiatives is positively associated with the change in the 
likelihood of a firm’s acquisition decision and its decision to acquire with stock; and this relation is 
statistically significant for both measures of liquidity.  
4.1.5. The Effect of Decimalization Stratified by Acquirers’ Stock Price 
Another way to address the concern that decimalization may be capturing other changes that affect 
treatment and control firms differently  is to exploit , as in Edmans et al. (2013), the cross-sectional 
variation of the impact of decimalization on different stocks. Intuitively, decimalization should have a 
greater impact on liquidity of stocks whose trading is more affected by the change in tick size, namely, 
those with low prices.24 The effect of decimalization on firms’ acquisitions should thus vary accordingly. 
Therefore, we run regressions based on the following specification: 
 𝑌𝑖,𝑡 = 𝛼0 + 𝛼1𝐿𝑜𝑤 𝑃𝑟𝑖𝑐𝑒𝑖𝑡−1 + 𝛼2 𝐿𝑜𝑤 𝑃𝑟𝑖𝑐𝑒𝑖𝑡−1 𝑋 𝐷𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑚𝑎𝑙 + 𝛼3𝐷𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑚𝑎𝑙+ 𝛼4𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑠+ 𝜖𝑖,𝑡 (4) 
where 𝑌𝑖,𝑡 is the outcome variable regarding a firm’s acquisition decision. 𝐿𝑜𝑤 𝑃𝑟𝑖𝑐𝑒𝑖𝑡−1 is a dummy 
variable which equals one if a firm’s closing price at the end of fiscal year t-1 falls below the median 
closing price in that year, and zero otherwise. The coefficient on the interaction variable, 𝛼2, is of key 
interest, as it captures the expected greater impact of decimalization on the liquidity, and thus on  
acquisition decisions, of firms with low-priced stocks. 
In determining the sample period for this test, we face a trade-off as follows. On the one hand, a 
long sample period around decimalization allows more observations to make a powerful comparison 
of firm acquisition decisions before and after decimalization. For instance, Edmans, et al. (2013) take 
the sample period from 1996 to 2007 in examining the impact of decimalization on low - and high-
                                                           
24 We note that one potential issue with this test is that stock prices are endogenous and can be manipulated. But since we 
rank all sample firms’ stock prices and compare between firms with relatively low prices and firms with relatively high 
prices, the impact of an individual firm’s stock price manipulation is small.  

=== PAGE 22 ===
21 
 
priced firms’ governance . On the other hand, acquisitions made well after decimalization are more 
likely to have been affected by confounding factors. We therefore  conduct the tests for both the full 
sample period (1985-2018) and the [-3, +3] window around decimalization.25  We also include the same 
control variables as in the baseline regression of equation (1).  
Columns (1) through (4) in Panel A of Table 6 report results of tests based on equation (4). We 
find robust and consistent evidence regarding the impact of liquidity on a firm’s acquisition decision. 
For the full sample period, Columns (1) and (2) present results regarding a firm’s likelihood of making 
acquisitions and of making acquisitions paid in stock, respectively.  In both cases, the coefficient 𝛼1 is 
negative but the coefficient 𝛼2 is positive, and both are statistically significant. This suggests that while 
low-priced firms are less likely to make (stock) acquisitions before decimalization, the pattern is less 
evident after decimalization due to the improvement in stock liquidity, especially for acquisitions paid 
in stock. Correspondingly, Columns (3) and (4) present results for the [-3, +3] window. They are similar 
to the results for the full sample period, suggesting that our finding is robust t o using different 
examination windows.  
4.2. Fraction of Acquisition Payment in Stock 
4.2.1. Baseline Analysis 
To test the other implication of Prediction 1 regarding the effect of liquidity on the extent to which stock 
is used to pay for an acquisition, we focus on the sample of acquisitions that involve public targets and 
estimate regressions based on the following Tobit model: 
  𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘𝑝𝑎𝑦𝑖𝑡 = 𝛽0 + 𝛽1 𝑅𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑒 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡−1 +  𝛽2 𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑠𝑖𝑡−1 + 𝜇𝑡 + 𝜀𝑖𝑡 .              (5) 
𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘𝑝𝑎𝑦𝑖𝑡 is the fraction of equity used in the payment for an acquisition by firm i in year t; it takes a 
value between 0 and 1. 𝑅𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑒 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡−1 is the difference of stock liquidity between acquirer i and 
its target, both as of year t-1. 𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑠𝑖𝑡−1 includes most of the variables from equation (1) and several 
additional variables that are meant to capture deal characteristics such as Ln(deal size), Acquirer’s and 
Target’s Firm Size, Cash/Deal, and Tender Offer. If the deal size is large, the target is large relative to the 
acquirer, or the acquirer has small cash holding s relative to the deal size, then the fraction of equity 
used for payment is likely to be larger. Cash financing is also more likely in tender offers (Martin, 1996).  
A few more firm characteristics that capture the differences between acquirers and targets, which 
may also be correlated with their liquidity difference, are also included in 𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑠𝑖𝑡−1. Illiquid targets 
are often smaller, more opaque, and may have a less informative stock price than more liquid targets. 
                                                           
25 For robustness, we also use the [-1, +1] and [-2, +2] windows and find the results are qualitatively similar.  

=== PAGE 23 ===
22 
 
The acquirer may thus be more likely to make a stock offer since this contingency pricing allows the 
target to share part of the valuation risk and incentivizes target managers to make the deal a success . 
On the other hand, more liquid acquirers with a better information environment may be less likely to 
be mispriced, making the target more likely to accept stock payment. As a result, the fraction of stock 
payment can be higher to reflect the difference in information environment and the uncertainty 
involved when the acquirer-target liquidity difference is greater. In addition to deal payment in stock, 
transaction prices and thus announcement returns can be affected. To preclude the confounding 
impact of these alternative explanations, we include both the acquirer’s and the target’s Market-to-book, 
size (Firm size ), profitability, cash flows  (FCF), and analyst following  (Analyst)) as additional control 
variables in examining the impact of Relative liquidity on the fraction of deal payment in stock, deal 
premium, and abnormal returns around deal announcement. 
      Our hypothesis suggests that both the acquirer’s as well as the target’s liquidity will affect the form 
of acquisition payment. The coefficient 𝛽1 in equation (5) captures the preference for any incremental 
liquidity that target shareholders expect to have as shareholders of the merged firm, relative to their 
status-quo liquidity. We expect 𝛽1 to be significantly positive: that is, the more liquid  the acquirer’s 
stock is relative to the target’s stock, the greater will be its use of stock to pay for the acquisition. We 
also estimate an alternative specification that includes acquirer’s and target’s liquidity as separate 
covariates in equation (5). In this alternative specification, we expect a positive coefficient on acquirer’s 
liquidity and a negative coefficient on target’s liquidity. 
The results from this analysis, presented in Panel A of Table 7 , show that stock liquidity has a 
significantly positive effect on the fraction of acquisition payment made in stock. The estimated 
coefficient on Relative Liquidity is positive and statistically significant. The more liquid the acquirer’s 
stock is relative to the target’s, the higher is the fraction o f acquisition payment made in stock. Fo r 
example, in C olumn (1), a one standard deviation increase in Relative Liquidity is associated with as 
much as an increase of 4.5 percentage points in the average fraction of payment that is made in stock. 
In robustness tests, we find that the re sults hold if we instead include both the acquirer’s and the 
target’s liquidity separately as explanatory variables. In particular, the coefficient on the acquirer’s 
liquidity is significantly positive and the coefficie nt on the target’s liquidity is significantly negative  
(results tabulated in Table O-4 of the Online Appendix).26 Moreover, we find that the fraction of 
payment in stock is also highly related to both firm and deal characteristics. For example, acquirers 
                                                           
26 The literature has established that most acquisitions made by private acquirers are paid with cash. For example, in their 
sample of M&As involving public targets during 1987 -2007, Massa and Xu (2013) find that of all transactions involving a 
private (public) acquirer, 71% (35%) are paid for with cash, 2% (29%) with stock, and the rest with a mixture of both. 
Although we do not examine cases involving private acquirers due to the lack of data on their characteristics, this empirical 
regularity seems to be consistent with our finding that target shareholders tend to prefer cash over stock when acquirers’ 
stock is “extremely illiquid” for private acquirers. 

=== PAGE 24 ===
23 
 
with higher return run -up, more volatile stock returns, lower asset tangibility, lower leverage, lower 
profitability, or higher market-to-book ratios pay more in stock. Also, more stock is paid in larger deals 
and when the target is large in size relative to the acquirer. 
4.2.2. The Effect of Decimalization Stratified by Acquirers’ Stock Price 
We next deal with the endogeneity of stock liquidity by examining the effect of decimalization stratified 
by acquirers’ stock price  based on equation (4) as in Section 4.1.5. And we use the sample of 
acquisitions that involve public targets . Note that the other approaches like D ID estimation and the 
actual change in liquidity around decimalization or shift in 1997 are not applicable here because th at 
would require a sample of acquirers that acquire public targets both before and after decimalization  
(or shift in 1997), which results in too small a sample to yield any meaningful inferences.27  
In this test, the dependent variable and other control variables included are the same as in Panel A 
of Table 7. The results, presented in Column (5 ) in Panel A of Table 6, show that while low-priced 
firms pay acquisitions with significantly less stock before decimalization, they pay with significantly 
more stock after decimalization due to the greater improvement in liquidity. The coefficient 𝛼1 is 
negative but the coefficient 𝛼2 is positive with a greater magnitude, and both are statistically significant. 
4.2.3. The Effect of Target Shareholder Characteristics  
In this section, we examine the effect of target shareholder characteristics – specifically, ownership by 
blockholders – on the relation between stock acquisitions and Relative Liquidity. In general, blockholders 
(typically with longer horizon) would not  be expected to place as much value on an acquirer’s stock 
liquidity in the near term as short-term investors.28 In Panel B of Table 7, we interact Relative Liquidity 
with Blockholder. T he full sample  of public targets  is ranked into terciles based on  the number of 
blockholders (who own  5% or more stock ownership ) in the firm  in the quarter prior to deal 
announcement. Blockholder is thus defined as taking a value of one for firms that fall in the top tercile 
and zero for firms that fall in the bottom tercile.29 According to the results, the coefficients on Relative 
Liquidity remain significantly positive with a greater economic magnitude than those in Panel A, 
                                                           
27 For instance, to test the fraction of stock payments conditional on M&A using Diff-in-Diff around decimalization, there 
were only 19 such acquirers in the treatment group that were successfully matched with an acquirer in the control gro up 
(using the propensity score matching procedure) in a window of [-3, +3] years. The count is even smaller for the premium 
and CAR tests later since we need to further split this subsample based on the payment method, stock or cash. 
28 In addition to blockholders, we also measure the investment horizon of target shareholders using their portfolio turnover 
over the past four quarters , following Yan and Zhang (2009). With the classification of institutional investors into short - 
and long-term investors based on this measure, we find similar results with those using blockholders. However, investors’ 
portfolio turnover is likely to result from their discretionary trades, which are  endogenously determined by firm 
performance. As a result, it is likely a noisy measure of investors’ liquidity needs. We thus choose to not tabulate the results 
with this measure (but they are available upon request). 
29 Firms in the middle tercile are thus removed in this test.  

=== PAGE 25 ===
24 
 
suggesting that the effect of the acquirer’s stock liquidity (relative to the target’s) on stoc k payment is 
greater for targets with no blockholders ( Blockholder = 0). The coefficients on the interaction term 
Relative Liquidity x Blockholder are negative and statistically significant at the 1% level. The results indicate 
that the impact of the acquirer’s relative stock liquidity on stock payment for the acquisition becomes 
weaker when there are more blockholders in the target. As noted, blockholders tend to be longer-term 
investors, and because blockholders are not expected to exit the firm in the near term, they may attach 
less value to acquirer ’s stock liquidity. Moreover, due to their large holdings,  the benefits of greater 
liquidity may be quite small as they  will face significant costs in liquidating their position s post-
acquisition when such a need rises. Overall, this would make a cash offer more likely.30 Economically, 
each additional blockholder in the target reduces the sensitivity of stock -payment to Relative Liquidity 
by 1.1 to 1.7 percentage points (depending on the liquidity measure), when compared with the 
benchmark case of no blockholders in the target.  
      In sum, our finding  is consistent with our prediction that the impact of the acquirer’s relative 
liquidity on stock payment decreases in the presence of long-term shareholders in the target, who value 
liquidity less due to their relatively smaller need for trading in the short term. It also helps to distinguish 
this hypothesis from the alternative governance and valuation hypotheses  that lack any clear 
predictions regarding the impact of target shareholder attributes.  
4.3. Acquisition Premium 
4.3.1. Baseline Analysis 
We examine the effect of the acquirer -target difference in stock liquidity on deal premium to test 
Prediction 2 using the same sample of acquisitions as in Section 4.2.1, which involves public targets. In 
particular, we estimate an OLS regression using equation (5) with the dependent variable being  deal 
premium. Because the deal premium implication of Prediction 2 applies to stock deals but not to cash 
deals, we estimate regressions separately for the two types of deals. In these regressions, we control 
for both acquirer’s and target’s characteristics as well as deal characteristics used in the tests of Prediction 
1. We expect the coefficient 𝛽1 to be significantly negative for stock deals, but we expect no such  
relation for cash deals. Alternatively, we include acquirer’s and target’s liquidity separately in the 
regressions and for stock deals (but not for cash deals), we expect a negative coefficient on acquirer’s 
liquidity and a positive coefficient on target’s liquidity. 
                                                           
30 Also, when corporate control is a concern for an acquirer, the acquirer is less likely to accept blockholders into its investor 
base of the new firm and thus may avoid payment in stock. Consistent with this, Harford, Humphery -Jenner, and Powell 
(2012) find that when entrenched managers make offers to buy private targets or public targets with blockholders, they are 
less likely to use all-equity offers so as to avoid blockholders in the combined firm. Therefore, when targets are owned by 
blockholders, the acquirer’s stock liquidity is, not surprisingly, less relevant for acquisition payment in stock.  

=== PAGE 26 ===
25 
 
Panel A of Table 8 presents results that are consistent with Prediction 2. In the subsample of stock 
acquisitions (Columns (1) and (3)) , the estimated coefficient on Relative Liquidity is negative and 
statistically significant for both liquidity measures. In particular, the price premium is lower by 4.46 to 
4.67 percentage points (depending on the liquidity measure) for a one standard deviation increase in 
Relative Liquidity. Note that the average premium is 26.8 percent, and thus the result is economically 
significant, amounting to approximately  17% of the mean premium.  In robustness tests, we include 
both the acquirer’s and the target ’s liquidity separately as explanatory variables. We find that t he 
coefficient on the acquirer’s liquidity is significantly negative and the coefficient on the target’s liquidity 
is significantly positive (results tabulated in Table O-5 of the Online Appendix).  
      Our finding complements that of Officer (2007), who finds that premiums in cash acquisitions are 
smaller than in stock acquisitions, because cash provides immediate liquidity and stock does not. On 
the other hand, in the subsample of cash acquisitions (Columns (2) and (4)), the estimated coefficient 
on Relative Liquidity is not statistically significant; this is consistent with the notion that acquirer’s stock 
liquidity is irrelevant for target shareholders in a cash deal.  
4.3.2. The Effect of Decimalization Stratified by Acquirers’ Stock Price 
As in Section 4.2.2 above, we also study the effect of decimalization stratified by acquirers’ stock price 
and estimate the model presented in equation  (4), but with deal premium as the dependent variable. 
The results are reported separately for stock deals and cash deals in Panel B of Table 6. In Column (1) 
for stock deals, the coefficient 𝛼2 is negative and  statistically significant  while the coefficient 𝛼1 is 
insignificantly positive with a smaller absolute magnitude than  𝛼2. Hence, while there is a decline in 
the premiums post -decimalization for all acquirers in stock deals (significant negative coefficient on 
Decimal), the decline in the premiums paid by low-priced acquirers is significantly larger . We do not 
find similar res ults for cash deals in Column (2), which is consistent wit h the finding in Panel A of 
Table 8. Neither of the two estimated coefficients of key interest in Column (2) is statistically significant. 
Overall, the results with decimalization as an exogenous shock to liquidity are consistent with those 
obtained in the OLS regressions, and thus  the endogeneity of stock liquidity is unlikely to bias our 
findings. 
4.3.3. The Effect of Target Shareholder Characteristics  
We also investigate the interaction effect of target shareholders’ investment horizon and  Relative 
Liquidity on deal premium.  Under our acquisition currency hypothesis,  greater equity ownership by 
target shareholders with long investment horizons would mitigate the impact of Relative Liquidity on 
deal premium. The results, presented in Panel B of Table 8, are consistent with this prediction. Take 
the case of stock deals first. In Columns (1) and ( 3), t he coefficients on Relative Liquidity remain 

=== PAGE 27 ===
26 
 
significantly negative, as in Panel A . The coefficients on the interaction term Relative Liquidity x 
Blockholder are positive and statistically significant. The results indicate that the negative effect of the 
acquirer’s relative stock liquidity on deal premium becomes weaker when there are more blockholders 
in the target. Economically, when compared with the benchmark case of no blockholders in the target, 
each additional blockholder reduces the sensitivity of deal premium to Relative Liquidity by 3.7 to 10.1 
percentage points, depending on the liquidity measure.  
      Interestingly, in the case of cash deals, the results reported in the even -numbered columns show 
that neither Relative Liquidity nor the interaction term has any significant impact on deal premium. The 
estimated coefficients on both terms are statistically insignificant. This contrasting finding further lends 
support to our acquisition currency hypothesis in that liquidity matters only for stock deals. 
4.4. Acquirers Enhance Their Stock Liquidity Before Acquisitions 
To test Prediction 3, we investigate whether potential acquirers exhibit a greater propensity to undertake 
liquidity-enhancing steps prior to making stock acquisitions. Our test is based on the following model 
specification: 
𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑒𝑛ℎ𝑎𝑛𝑐𝑒𝑖𝑡 = 𝛾0 + 𝛾1 𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘𝑎𝑐𝑞𝑖𝑡+1 + 𝛾2 𝐶𝑎𝑠ℎ𝑎𝑐𝑞𝑖𝑡+1 +  𝛾3 𝐻𝑦𝑏𝑟𝑖𝑑𝑎𝑐𝑞𝑖𝑡+1 + 𝛾4 𝐶𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑟𝑜𝑙𝑠𝑖𝑡 + 𝜇𝑡 + 𝜀𝑖𝑡     (6)                                                                
𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑒𝑛ℎ𝑎𝑛𝑐𝑒𝑖𝑡 represents the liquidity-enhancing steps that acquirer i undertakes in year t. 𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘𝑎𝑐𝑞𝑖,𝑡+1,  
𝐶𝑎𝑠ℎ𝑎𝑐𝑞𝑖𝑡+1, and 𝐻𝑦𝑏𝑟𝑖𝑑𝑎𝑐𝑞𝑖𝑡+1 on the right-hand side are dummies that equal one if a stock , cash, 
or hybrid-payment acquisition is made by firm i in year t+1, and zero otherwise, respectively. The first 
liquidity-enhancing step that we consider is a stock split, which we define as a dummy variable that 
equals one if a stock split is conducted in year t, and zero otherwise. We estimate the coefficients of 
equation (6) using a logit model. The second action that we consider is the guidance on earnings 
provided by the firm; in this case, the coefficients are estimated using an OLS regression. We define 
the measure of earnings guidance as the difference in the frequency of earnings guidance provided by 
the management from year t-1 to t.31  We test Prediction 3 using the sample of all Compustat -CRSP 
firms. Prediction 3  implies a significantly positive coefficient 𝛾1  on 𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘𝑎𝑐𝑞𝑖,𝑡+1 , but not so for 
coefficient 𝛾2 on 𝐶𝑎𝑠ℎ𝑎𝑐𝑞𝑖,𝑡+1 or 𝛾3 on 𝐻𝑦𝑏𝑟𝑖𝑑𝑎𝑐𝑞𝑖,𝑡+1.  
The prior literature (discussed earlier ) has shown that stock splits and other action s that can 
mitigate information asymmetry, such as providing earnings guidance, are associated with a subsequent 
improvement in a firm’s stock liquidity. Before testing Prediction 3, we verify that the findings in the 
prior literature on the impact of stock-splits and earnings guidance on stock liquidity hold in our sample. 
                                                           
31 Alternatively, we define the measure of earnings guidance as the natural logarithm of one plus the frequency of earnings 
guidance provided by the management in year t, and the results (unreported for brevity) also hold. 

=== PAGE 28 ===
27 
 
To that end, we regress the liquidity measures as of year t on a dummy variable indicating whether the 
firm splits its stock in year t–1 and on the frequency of earnings guidance in year t–1, while controlling 
for various characteristics of the firm and its information environment.  
      We obtain data on earnings guidance from First Call .  The sample period for the tests involving 
earnings guidance is from 1994 to 2018; this is governed by the availability of data coverage. The results, 
presented in Table O-6 of the Online Appendix, show that stock splits and the frequency of earnings 
guidance are both strongly associated with greater stock liquidity in the following year. The estimated 
coefficients on the two main variables of interest are positive and statistically significant for both 
measures of stock liquidity. As expected, firms with larger size, higher market -to-book ratios, more 
cash holding, lower leverage, better operating performan ce, lower stock return volatility, and more 
analysts’ coverage have higher stock liquidity.  Also, stocks of firms with more R&D investment and 
lower asset tangibility are more liquid.  
      Next, we test Prediction 3 and present the baseline results from estimating equation (6) in Panel A 
of Table 9. Consistent with our prediction, the estimated coefficients on the main variable of interest, 
𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘𝑎𝑐𝑞𝑖𝑡+1, are positive and significant. Firms are more likely to split stocks or provide more 
earnings guidance in the year prior to stock acquisitions. In comparison, the coefficients on 
𝐶𝑎𝑠ℎ𝑎𝑐𝑞𝑖,𝑡+1  are even negative , although they are statistically insignificant. The coefficients on 
𝐻𝑦𝑏𝑟𝑖𝑑𝑎𝑐𝑞𝑖,𝑡+1 are mixed, depending on the liquidity measure , and not statistically significant. The 
results reinforce our argument on the role of liquidity in stock acquisitions.32  
      One might be concerned that both stock splits/earnings gui dance provisions and the decision to 
engage in stock acquisitions are endogenous, and thus the estimated coefficients on 𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘𝑎𝑐𝑞𝑖𝑡+1 
might be biased. To address this concern, we instrument 𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘𝑎𝑐𝑞𝑖𝑡+1 with the total number of 
acquisitions that occurred in the same year and  in the same Fama-French 48 industry. To the extent 
that acquisitions occur in waves (e.g., Harford, 2005) and it is reasonable to assume that acquisitions 
made in the industry are un likely to be related to an individual firm’s stock split/earnings guidance 
decisions except through its decision to make stock acquisitions, this instrument satisfies both the 
relevance and exclusion conditions for the IV estimation.  
      Panel B of Table 9 reports both first- and second-stage estimates from this IV regression. In the 
first stage, the decision of stock acquisitions is shown to be positively related to the number of 
acquisitions made in the industry and the correlation is statistically significant at the 1% level. We also 
                                                           
32 We note that providing earnings guidance prior to stock acquisitions can be beyond and above the consideration of 
liquidity improvement, because it also helps to reduce information asymmetry, allowing the acquirer to pay lower premium. 
Thus, earnings guidance can play multiple (and non -mutually exclusive) roles. Of course, stock splits do not have this 
additional function. 

=== PAGE 29 ===
28 
 
find that the number of acquisitions made in the industry is a strong instrument, as seen from the large 
F-value for the firs t-stage regression. 33  The second-stage results confirm those in Panel A , that the 
coefficients on the instrumented 𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘𝑎𝑐𝑞𝑖𝑡+1 remain positive (with larger magnitudes than those in 
OLS) and statistically significant. In sum, the evidence provides support to Prediction 3 that firms tend 
to take steps to improve stock liquidity prior to making stock acquisitions. 
4.5. Acquisition Announcement Returns 
4.5.1. Baseline Analysis 
Lastly, we test Prediction 4  using an OLS regression model based on equation (1), except that the 
dependent variable is the three -day [ -1, 1] cumulative abnormal return (CAR)  around deal 
announcement and the explanatory variable of interest is 𝑅𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑒 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡−1 . Since the test 
requires target firm’s liquidity and we need to control for the effect of both acquirer and target 
characteristics, our sample consists of stock acquisitions only involving public targets. We estimate the 
three-day CARs using the CRSP equally-weighted index and the market model, where the parameters 
for the market model are estimated over the ( –120, –30) day interval. We control for both acquirer’s 
and target’s characteristics (described earlier) as well as other relevant deal characteristics. In particular, 
we add two additional controls of deal characteristics: Competing_Bid and Related Deal. Acquirers may 
pay higher premiums in competing bids as well as in diversification deals that are not related to the 
acquirer’s primary industry. We expect the estimated coefficient on the main variable of interest, 
𝑅𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑒 𝐿𝑖𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑑𝑖𝑡𝑦𝑖𝑡−1, to be significantly positive. 
According to the  results in Columns (1) and (2) in Panel A of  Table 10, we find that for both 
liquidity measures, the acquirer’s announcement CARs are positively and statistically significantly 
related to Relative Liquidity in a stock deal. The more liquid the acquirers’ stock is relative to the targets’, 
the higher (or less negative) are the acquirers’ announcement CARs. For a one  standard deviation 
increase in Relative Liquidity, the CARs increase by 0.47%-0.64%, depending on the measure of liquidity. 
This improvement in acquirer’s announcement returns is economically significant, given that the 
average (median) CAR for stock deals in our sample of public targets is –3.65% (–2.79%). Consistent 
with prior literature, acquirers’ CARs are negatively related to their price run-up, but positively related 
to the target’s market -to-book ratio. Wang and Xie (2009) find that both acquirer and target 
announcement returns increase with the shareholder -rights difference betwee n the acquirer and the 
target, because higher syne rgy can be achieved when better -governed acquirers take over poorly -
                                                           
33  Note that an F-value over 10 is typically considered as a sign of a strong instrument. 

=== PAGE 30 ===
29 
 
governed targets and the synergy is shared by both parties. Following their study, we control for the 
difference in acquirers’ and targets’ anti-takeover measures, and confirm that our finding is robust.34 
Columns (3) and (4) of Panel A report the results for cash deals. For either liquidity measure, t he 
estimated coefficient on Relative Liquidity  is insignificant, both economically and statistically. 35 The 
finding that stock liquidity is not relevant for acquirers ’ returns in cash deals is further evidence 
consistent with our acquisition currency hypothesis . In robustness tests, we include acquirer ’s and 
target’s liquidity separately in the regressions. The results, tabulated in Panel A of Table O -7 of the 
Online Appendix, show that the acquirer’s announcement returns are positively (negatively) and 
significantly related to the acquirer’s (target’s) liquidity in stock deals, but not in cash deals. 
In Panel B  of Table O -7 of the Online Appendix , we also present the results for acquirers’ 
announcement returns with the control for deal premium. Our acquisition currency hypothesis 
suggests that the announcement returns are greater for acquirers when the relative acquirer -target 
liquidity is higher as the acquirers pay lower premium. And thus the effect of relative liquidity shall be 
attenuated once deal premium is controlled for. We find it is indeed the case; the coefficients on Relative 
Liquidity are smaller and less significant for both liquidity measures.36 
We also examine  the combined announcement CARs of both the acquirer and the target .37 The 
results are reported in Panel  B of Table 10. For s tock deals, t he estimated coefficient s on Relative 
Liquidity are positive and statistically significant. This suggests that the total value creation from the 
deal is positively related to the liquidity difference. For cash deals, however, the estimated coefficient 
on Relative Liquidity is insignificant for either liquidity measure.  The irrelevance of stock liquidity in 
cash deals further reinforces our acquisition currency hypothesis. As is the case for acquirers’ returns, 
Panel C of Table O -7 of the Online Appendix shows that the coefficients on Relative Liquidity are 
attenuated with the control for deal premium.  
4.5.2. The Effect of Target Shareholder Characteristics  
We also investigate the interaction effect of target shareholders’ investment horizon and Relative 
Liquidity on acquirer’s announcement CARs in stock deals. The results are reported in Panel C of Table 
10 for stock deals. In all columns, the coefficients on Relative Liquidity remain significantly positive as 
                                                           
34 The results are available upon request. Because the data on anti-takeover measures are not available for all of our sample 
firms, we do not include this variable in our main test. 
35 In results that are not tabulated for brevity (available upon request), we also find insignificant coefficient on Relative 
Liquidity for deals with hybrid payment.  
36 The coefficient on Relative Liquidity (Spread) is 0.00527 in Panel A of Table 10 and 0.00454 in Panel B of Table O-7. It is 
shown as 0.005 in both tables due to rounding. 
37 For completeness, we have examined the announcement CARs for the target alone  too, and the results are tabulated in 
Panel D of Table O-7 of the Online Appendix. We find that CARs for the target increase with the acquirer -target relative 
liquidity for stock deals, but not cash deals.  

=== PAGE 31 ===
30 
 
in Panel A for stock deals. The coefficients on the interaction term Relative Liquidity x Blockholder are 
negative and statistically significant. The results indicate that the positive effect of the acquirer’s relative 
stock liquidity on deal announcement returns becomes weaker when there are more blockhold ers in 
the target, consistent with liquidity being less value relevant for them.  
5. Conclusion 
We claim that liquidity can enhance the role of acquirer stock as an acquisition currency. Firms with 
more liquid stocks are more likely to make acquisitions and pay for them with equity, especially when 
the target’s stock liquidity is relatively low. Acquirers with more liquid stock pay lower price premiums 
and experience less negative deal announcement abnormal returns in stock deals. To exploit the 
benefits of more liquid stock in M&A, firms tend to take actions to enhance their information 
environment and improve stock liquidity prior to stock acquisitions.  
Our study sheds light on some stylized facts in corporate decisions. For instance, we provide a new 
perspective in understanding why M&A may come in waves and stock payment is more popular in 
good times (because stock liqui dity tends to be pro -cyclical). Our findings are  also consistent with 
results documented in prior studies that higher acquisition activity typically follows IPOs.38 Public 
stock, relative to private stock, is a better acquisition currenc y due to the greatly improved post -IPO 
stock liquidity. Thus, our study has important implications for the debate on whether stock liquidity 
should be restricted or improved because, for instance, it lowers the costs to institutions of exiting a 
stock.39 It also provides another venue  linking capital market con ditions and corporate decisions , 
consistent with the real effects of the stock market. 
                                                           
38 See, e.g., Brau and Fawcett (2006), Hovakimian and Hutton (2010), and Celikyurt, Sevilir , and Shivdasani (2010).  
39 See, e.g., Bhide (1993).  

=== PAGE 32 ===
31 
 
References 
Ahern, K. R., & Sosyura, D., 2014. Who writes the news? Corporate press rel eases during merger 
negotiations. Journal of Finance, 69(1), 241-291. 
Amihud, Y., 2002. Illiquidity and stock returns: cross-section and time-series effects. Journal of Financial 
Markets, 5(1), 31-56. 
Amihud, Y., Lev, B., & Travlos, N. G., 1990. Corporate control and the choice of investment financing: 
The case of corporate acquisitions. Journal of Finance, 45(2), 603–616 
Amihud, Y., & Mendelson, H. 1986. Asset pricing and the bid-ask spread. Journal of financial Economics, 
17(2), 223-249. 
Ang, J. S., & Cheng, Y., 2006. Direct evidence on the market ‐driven acquisition theory.  Journal of 
Financial Research, 29(2), 199-216. 
Back, K., Collin-Dufresne, P., Fos, V., Li, T., & Ljungqvist, A., 2017 . Activism, strategic trading, and 
liquidity. Working paper. 
Balakrishnan, K., Billings, M., Kelly, B., & Ljungqvist, A., 2014. Shaping Liquidity: On the Causal 
Effects of Voluntary Disclosure. Journal of Finance, 69(5), 2237-2278. 
Berkovitch, E., & Narayanan, M. P., 1990. Competition and the medium of exchange in 
takeovers. Review of Financial Studies, 3(2), 153-174. 
Bessembinder, H. , 2003. Trade execution costs and market quality after decimaliz ation. Journal of 
Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 38(4), 747–777. 
Beyer, A., Cohen, D. A., Lys, T. Z., &  Walther, B. R., 2010. The financial reporting environment: 
Review of the recent literature. Journal of Accounting and Economics, 50(2-3), 296-343. 
Bharath, S. T., Jayaraman, S., & Nagar, V., 2013. Exit as governance: An empirical analysis.  Journal of 
Finance, 68(6), 2515-2547. 
Bharath, S. T., Pasquariello, P., & Wu, G., 2009. Does asymmetric information drive capital structure 
decisions? The Review of Financial Studies, 22(8), 3211-3243. 
Bhide,A, 1993. The hidden costs of stock market liquidity. Journal of Financial Economics 34(1), 31–51. 
Bond, P., Edmans, A., & Goldstein, I., 2012. The real effects of financial market s. Annual Review of 
Financial Economics, 4, 339-360. 
Brau, J. C., & Fawcett, S. E., 2006. Initial public offerings: An analysis of theory and practice. Journal 
of Finance, 61(1), 399-436. 
Brogaard, J. A., Li, D., & Xia, Y., 2017. Stock liquidity and default risk. Journal of Financial Economics , 
124(3), 486-502. 
Brown, D. T., & Ryngaert, M. D., 1991. The mode of acquisition in takeovers: Taxes and asymmetric 
information. Journal of Finance, 46(2), 653–669. 
Butler, A., Grullon, G., & Weston, J. P., 2005. Stock market liquidity and the cost of issuing equity. 
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 40(2), 331-348. 
Celikyurt, U., Sevilir, M., & Shivdasani, A., 2010. Going public to acquire? The acquisition motive in 
IPOs. Journal of Financial Economics, 96(3), 345-363.  
Chang, S., 1998. Takeovers of privately held targets, method of payment, and bidder returns. Journal of 
Finance, 53(2), 773-784. 
Chordia, T., Roll, R., & Subrahmanyam, A., 2008. Liquidity and market efficiency. Journal of Financial 
Economics, 87(2), 249–268. 
Coller, M., & Yohn, T. L., 1997. Management Forecasts and Information Asymmetry: An examination 
of bid-ask spreads. Journal of Accounting Research, 35(2), 181-191. 
Coval, J., & Stafford, E., 2007. Asset fire sales (and purchases) in equity markets. Journal of Financial 
Economics, 86(2), 479–512. 
Diamond, D. W., & Verrecchia, R. E., 1991. Disclosure, Liquidity, and the Cost of Capital. Journal of 
Finance, 46(4), 1325-1359. 
Dong, M., Hirshleifer, D., Richardson, S., & Teoh, S. H., 2006. Does investor misvaluation drive the  
takeover market? Journal of Finance, 61(2), 725-762. 

=== PAGE 33 ===
32 
 
Duffie, D., 2010. Presidential address: Asset price dynamics with slow-moving capital. Journal of Finance, 
65(4), 1237-1267. 
Eckbo, B. E., Giammarino, R. M., & Heinkel , R. L., 1990, Asymmetric information and the medium 
of exchange in takeovers: Theory and tests. Review of Financial Studies, 3(4), 651–675. 
Eckbo, B. E., & Thorburn, K. S., 2000. Gains to bidder firms revisited: domestic and foreign 
acquisitions in Canada. Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 35(1), 1-25. 
Edmans, A., Fang, V., & Zur, E., 2013. The effect of liquidity on governance. Review of Financial Studies, 
26(6), 1443–1482. 
Erickson, M., & Wang, S. W., 1999. Earnings management by acquiring firms in stock for stock 
mergers. Journal of Accounting and Economics, 27(2), 149-176. 
Faccio, M., & Masulis, R. W., 2005. The choice of payment method in European mergers and 
acquisitions. Journal of Finance, 60(3), 1345-1388. 
Fang, V. W., Noe, T. H., & Tice, S., 2009. Stock market liquidity and firm value. Journal of Financial 
Economics, 94(1), 150-169. 
Fang, V. W., Tian, X., & Tice, S., 2014. Does stock liquidity enhance or impede firm innovation? Journal 
of Finance, 69(5), 2085-2125. 
Fishman, M. J., 1989. Preemptive bidding and the role of the medium of exchange in 
acquisitions. Journal of Finance, 44(1), 41-57. 
Fu, F., Lin, L., & Officer, M., 2013. Acquisitions driven by stock overvaluation: Are they good deals? 
Journal of Financial Economics, 109(1), 24-39. 
Fuller, K., Netter, J., & Stegemoller, M., 2002. What do returns to acquiring firms tell us? Evidence 
from firms that make many acquisitions. Journal of Finance, 57(4), 1763–1793. 
Furfine, C., 2003. Decimalization and market liquidity. Economic Perspectives, 27(4), 2–12. 
Ge, R., & Lennox, C., 2011. Do acquirers disclose good news or withhold bad news when they finance 
their acquisitions using equity? Review of Accounting Studies, 16(1), 183-217. 
Ghosh, A., & Ruland, W., 1998. Managerial ownership, the method of payment for acquisitions, and 
executive job retention. Journal of Finance, 53(2), 785–798. 
Glosten, L. R., & Milgrom, P. R., 1985. Bid, ask, and transaction prices in a specialist market with 
heterogeneously informed traders. Journal of Financial Economics, 14(1), 71-100. 
Goyenko, R.Y., Holden, C.W., & Trzcinka, C.A., 2009. Do liquidity measures measure liquidity? Journal 
of Financial Economics, 92(2), 153-181. 
Hadlock, C., & Pierce, J., 2010. New evidence on measuring financial constraints: Moving beyond the 
KZ index. Review of Financial Studies, 23(5), 1909-1940. 
Hansen, R. G., 1987. A theory for the choice of exchange medium in mergers and acquisitions. Journal 
of Business, 60(1), 75–95. 
Harford, J., 2005. What drives merger waves? Journal of Financial Economics, 77(3), 529-560. 
Harford, J., Humphery-Jenner, M., & Powell, R., 2012. The sources of value destruction in acquisitions 
by entrenched managers. Journal of Financial Economics, 106(2), 247-261. 
Holmströ m, B., & Tirole, J., 1993. Market liquidity and performance monitoring. Journal of Political 
Economy, 101(4), 678-709. 
Hovakimian, A., & Hutton, I., 2010. Merger-motivated IPOs. Financial Management, 39(4), 1547-1573. 
Jayaraman, S., & Milbourn, T. T., 2012. The effect of auditor expertise on executive 
compensation. Working Paper. 
Kaplan, S. N., & Zingales, L., 1997. Do investment-cash flow sensitivities provide useful measures of 
financing constraints? The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 112(1), 169-215. 
Koeplin, J., Sarin, A., & Shapiro, A., 2000. The private company discount. Journal of Applied Corporate 
Finance, 12(4), 94-101. 
Kyle, A. S., 1985. Continuous auctions and insider trading. Econometrica, 53(6), 1315-1335. 
Lin, J. C., Singh, A. K., & Yu, W., 2009. Stock splits, trading continuity, and the cost of equity 
capital. Journal of Financial Economics, 93(3), 474-489. 
Lipson, M. L., & Mortal, S., 2009. Liquidity and capital structure. Journal of Financial Markets, 12(4), 611-
644. 

=== PAGE 34 ===
33 
 
Louis, H., 2004. Earnings management and the market performance of acquiring firms. Journal of 
Financial Economics, 74(1), 121-148. 
Maksimovic V., Phillips, G., & Yang, L., 2013. Private and Public Merger Waves. Journal of Finance , 
68(5), 2177-2217. 
Martin, K. J., 1996. The method of payment in corporate acquisitions, investment opportunities, and 
management ownership. Journal of Finance, 51(4), 1227–1246. 
Massa, M., & Xu, M., 2013. The value of (stock) liquidity in the M&A market. Journal of Financial and 
Quantitative Analysis, 48(5), 1463-1497. 
Maug, E., 1998. Large shareholders as monitors: is there a trade ‐off between liquidity and control? 
Journal of Finance, 53(1), 65-98. 
Moeller, S. B., Schlingemann, F. P., & Stulz, R. M., 2007. How do diversity of opinion and information 
asymmetry affect acquirer returns? Review of Financial Studies, 20(6), 2047-2078. 
Muscarella, C. J., & Vetsuypens, M. R., 1996. Stock Splits: Signaling or Liquidity? The case of ADR 
solo-splits. Journal of Financial Economics, 42(1), 3-26. 
Officer, M. S., 2007. The price of corporate liquidity: Acquisition discounts for unlisted targets. Journal 
of Financial Economics, 83(3), 571-598. 
Officer, M. S., Poulsen, A. B., & Stegemoller, M., 2009. Target -firm information asymmetry and 
acquirer returns. Review of Finance, 13(3), 467-493. 
Rhodes–Kropf, M., Robinson, D. T., & Viswa nathan, S., 2005. Valuation waves and merger activity: 
The empirical evidence. Journal of Financial Economics, 77(3), 561-603. 
Roosenboom, P., Schlingemann, F. P., & Vasconcelos, M., 2014. Does stock liquidity affect incentives 
to monitor? Evidence from corporate takeovers. Review of Financial Studies, 27(8), 2392-2433. 
Schlingemann, F. P., Stulz, R. M., & Walkling, R. A., 2002. Divestitures and the liquidity of the market 
for corporate assets. Journal of Financial Economics, 64(1), 117-144. 
Shleifer, A., & Vishny, R. W., 1992. Liquidation values and debt capacity: A market equilibrium 
approach. Journal of Finance, 47(4), 1343-1366. 
Shleifer, A., & Vishny, R. W., 2003, Stock market driven acquisitions. Journal of Financial Economics, 
70(3), 295–311. 
Stulz, R., 1988. Managerial control of voting rights: Financing policies and the market for corporate 
control. Journal of Financial Economics, 20(1), 25-54. 
Travlos, N. G., 1987, Corporate takeover bids, method of payment, and bidding firms’ stock returns. 
Journal of Finance, 42(4), 943–963. 
Yan, S., & Zhang, Z., 2009. Institutional Investors and Equity Returns: Are Short -term Institutions 
Better Informed? Review of Financial Studies, 22(2), 893-924. 
Wang, C., and Xie, F., 2009, Corporate governance transfer and synergistic gains from mergers and 
acquisitions. Review of Financial Studies, 22(2), 829-858. 
Whited, T., & Wu, G., 2006. Financial constraints risk. Review of Financial Studies, 19(2), 531-559. 
 
  

=== PAGE 35 ===
34 
 
Appendix A: Variable Definitions 
A.1. Key variables 
A.1.1. Stock liquidity 
We use two measures of liquidity in our analysis that are common in the literature. The first is Amihud’s 
(2002) Illiquidity ratio. It is defined as the natural logarithm of AvgILLIQ x 109 where AvgILLIQ is the 
yearly average of illiquidity, which is measured as the absolute return divided by dollar trading volume: 
 𝐴𝑣𝑔𝐼𝐿𝐿𝐼𝑄𝑖,𝑡 =  1
𝐷𝑎𝑦𝑠𝑖,𝑡
 ∑ |𝑅𝑖,𝑡,𝑑|
𝐷𝑜𝑙𝑉𝑜𝑙𝑖,𝑡,𝑑
𝐷𝑎𝑦𝑠𝑖,𝑡
𝑑=1
. 
Here Daysi,t is the number of valid observation days for stock i in fiscal year t, and Ri,t,d and DolVoli,t,d 
are the daily return and daily dollar trading volume, respectively, for stock i on day d of fiscal year t. 
This measure reflects the average stock price sensitivity to one dollar trading volume. Higher 
AvgILLIQ is interpreted as lower stock liquidity. In our analysis, we multiply Amihud’s Illiquidity ratio 
by “–1” so that it measures a stock’s liquidity instead of illiquidity. 
      The second measure is the natural logarithm of the yearly average of daily bid-ask spread: 
𝐵𝑖𝑑 − 𝐴𝑠𝑘 𝑆𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑎𝑑𝑖,𝑡 = 1
𝐷𝑎𝑦𝑠𝑖,𝑡
∑ 𝐴𝑠𝑘𝑖,𝑡,𝑑 − 𝐵𝑖𝑑𝑖,𝑡,𝑑
(𝐴𝑠𝑘𝑖,𝑡,𝑑 + 𝐵𝑖𝑑𝑖,𝑡,𝑑)
2
𝐷𝑎𝑦𝑠𝑖,𝑡
𝑑=1
 
where Daysi,t is the number of valid observation days for stock i in fiscal year t, and Aski,t,d and Bidi,t,d 
are the closing ask and bid prices of stock i on day d of fiscal year t. Higher Bid -Ask Spread is 
interpreted as lower stock liquidity. Like the Amihud’s  Illiquidity ratio, we multiply the  Bid-Ask 
Spreadi,t by “–1” so that it also measures a stock’s liquidity instead of illiquidity. 
A.1.2. Major deal characteristics 
 Stock acquisition (Stockacq): In the literature, definitions of stock deals vary across stu dies. For 
example, some define deals paid 100% in stock as well as  deals paid with a combination of 
stock and cash as “stock” deals (e.g., Chang, 1998; Officer, Poulsen, Stegemoller, 2009). In 
other studies, “stock” deals are defined as those containing on ly stock, and “cash” deals are 
defined similarly (e.g., Moeller, Schlingemann, and Stulz, 2007). We take two approaches in the 
examination of payment method. First, we take the proportion of stock paid in each deal. 
Second, we define a deal as “stock” deal  if the proportion of stock in the total payment is no 
less than 60% (i.e., a large majority of the payment is in the form of stock) and a deal as “cash” 
deal if the proportion of cash in the total payment is also no less than 60%. A “hybrid” deal is 
thus referred to as a deal where both the proportion of stock and cash are between 40% and 
60%. In robustness checks, we also define “stock” (“cash”) deals as those containing stock 
(cash) payment only and find that our results are qualitatively similar. 
 Deal Premium: It is the market value of the acquisition premium offered to the target, and is 
measured by the effective offer price as a percentage premium over the target firm’s market 
share price as of two days prior to the takeover announcement. 
A.2. All other variables 
 Acquisition is a dummy variable that takes a value of one if a firm makes an acquisition in the 
fiscal year, and zero otherwise.   
 Analyst is the maximum number of analysts following the stock for the year. It is coded as 0 if 
there is no analyst coverage in I/B/E/S. 

=== PAGE 36 ===
35 
 
 Blockholder is the number of blockholders with 5% or more stock ownership in the target firm 
in the quarter prior to deal announcement.  
 CAR is the three -day [ -1,+1] cumulative abnormal return around deal announcement , 
computed using the CRSP equally-weighted index and the market model, where the parameters 
for the market model are estimated over the [-120,-30] day interval.  
 Cashacq is a dummy variable that takes a value of one if the firm makes a cash acquisition in 
the fiscal year, and zero otherwise.  
 Cash/Deal is the amount of acquirer cash plus marketable securities normalized by the value of 
the merger or acquisition. 
 Competing_Bid is a binary variable that takes one if there was a competing bid, and zero 
otherwise. 
 Decimal is a dummy variable equal to one for 2002 and later, and zero for 2000 or earlier.  
 Earnings Guidance is the difference between the number of earnings guidance provided by the 
firm in year t and t-1.  
 FCF is free cash flow scaled by total assets.  
 Firm Age is defined as one plus the number of years elapsed since the year the firm first appears 
on CRSP.   
 Firm Size is the natural log of book value of total assets. 
 Hadlock-Pierce Index is the index of firms’ external finance constraints proposed by Hadlock and 
Pierce (2010). It is calculated as –0.737 x Firm Size + 0.043 x Firm Age2 – 0.040 x Firm Age, 
where Firm Size and Firm Age are the same as defined above. Both Firm size and Firm age are 
capped at 95th percentile.  
 Hybridacq is a dummy variable that takes a value of one if the firm makes a hybrid -payment 
acquisition in the fiscal year, and zero otherwise.  
 Ind_stock_return is the annual stock return in the prior year, adjusted for the mean 
contemporaneous industry stock return. 
 Kaplan-Zingales Index is calculated as follows: 
𝐾𝑍𝑖,𝑡 = −1.002 𝐶𝐹𝑖,𝑡
𝐴𝑇𝑖,𝑡−1
− 39.398 𝐷𝑖𝑣𝑖,𝑡
𝐴𝑇𝑖,𝑡−1
− 1.315 𝐶𝑖,𝑡
𝐴𝑇𝑖,𝑡−1
+ 3.319𝐿𝑒𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑖,𝑡 + 0.283𝑄𝑖,𝑡 
where cash flow (CF) is the sum of income before extraordinary items and depreciation and 
amortization; dividends (DIV) are measured as common and preferred dividends ; C is the 
amount of cash and short term investments; AT refers to the firm’s total book assets; Leverage 
is the ratio of total debt to assets; and Q is the ratio of the market value of the firm to its total 
book assets. 
 Leverage is the total debt to assets ratio. 
 Ln(1+credit rating) is the natural logarithm of one plus the credit rating of the firm, where credit 
rating equals 1 if the firm has AAA long term credit rating, 2 if the rating is AA+, 3 if the rating 
is AA, and so on.  
 Ln(deal size) is the natural logarithm of the value of transaction. 
 Low_Price is a dummy variable that equals one if a firm’s closing price at the end of fiscal year 
t-1 falls below the median closing price in that year, and zero otherwise 
 Market-to-Book is the ratio of market value to book value of total assets. 
 Number of acquisitions is the total number of M&As in the given year and in the same industry 
(defined using Fama-French 48 industry) as the firm.  
 Profitability is income before extraordinary items scaled by total assets.  
 Related Deal is a binary variable that takes one if both firms (acquirer and target) are from the 
same two-digit SIC code, and zero otherwise. 
 Relative Liquidity is the difference between the acquirer’s and the target’s stock liquidity. 

=== PAGE 37 ===
36 
 
 Runup is the firm’s market-adjusted cumulative return for the 90 trading days [-120, -30] prior 
to the acquisition announcement date. 
 Shift is a dummy variable equal to one for 1998 and later, and zero for 1996 and earlier.  
 Short Horizon is the ratio of shareholding by short-term investors to shareholding by long-
term investors in the quarter prior to the announcement date. 
 Stockacq is a dummy variable that takes a value of one if the firm makes a stock acquisition in 
the fiscal year, and zero otherwise.  
 Stockpay is the fraction of equity in the payment for an acquisition by a firm; it takes a value 
between 0 and 1.  
 Stock Split is a binary variable that indicates whether or not there was a stock split. 
 Tangibility is the net total value of property, plant and equipment, divided by total assets. 
 Tender Offer is a binary variable that takes a value of one if the acquirer involves a tender offer 
as reported in SDC, and zero otherwise. 
 Volatility is the volatility in the firm’s stock return over the 12 months preceding the acquisition. 
  Leverage is the change in leverage from t–2 to t–1.  
 Whited-Wu Index is the index of firms’ external finance constraints proposed by Whited and 
Wu (2006).  
  

=== PAGE 38 ===
37 
 
Appendix B: A Simple Model of Liquid Stock as an Acquisition Currency 
 
We sketch a simple model to illustrate the potential effect of stock liquidity – of publicly -traded 
acquirers and targets – on the market for corporate control and use of acquirer stock as the acquisition 
currency. We begin by describ ing the timing of events in our single -period model. There are three 
salient dates t = 0,1 & 2.  On date t = 0, firm 𝐴 decides on whether to acquire a target firm 𝑇. Both 
the target and acquirer firms are publicly traded. If there is an acquisition, its terms are negotiated, and 
the acquisition is completed on date 0. As we explain below, the premium paid for an acquisition can 
depend on a number of factors such as the synergy value created by the merger, bargaining power of 
𝐴 and 𝑇, as well as the preferences of target investors with regard to stock liquidity. We consider trade-
offs that the acquirer faces in affecting the liquidity of the combined firm that is likely to emerge after 
the acquisition is completed. The anticipated liquidity of the subsequent combined firm will affect the 
terms on which the merger takes place. In the model, the post -acquisition liquidity is affected by the 
nature of the assets/asymmetric information in 𝐴, 𝑇, but it could also be strongly affected by disclosure 
policies of the acquirer as well as discretionary actions such as stock splits.  
Date 1 is an intermediate date on which the stock market is open, and trading occurs. It is on date 
1 that the liquidity properties of the target and acquirer stock can have a material effect on the payoffs 
to investors. Date 2 represents the terminal date on which any uncertainty regarding firm values is 
resolved.  For simplicity, all market participants are taken to be risk-neutral and there is no discounting 
of value between dates. Absent an acquisition, target stock price (or payoff) is expected to be 𝑉𝑇 per 
share on the terminal date 𝑡 = 2, while the value of the acquirer per share is expected to be 𝑉𝐴.  We 
assume that there are synergistic benefits that result i n an expected value enhancement of 𝑉0 (net of 
acquisition and related costs). This information is public knowledge after the acquirer appears.  The 
quantity of shares outstanding for each firm is normalized to 1. 
We now describe the liquidity preferences of target firm shareholders. We take the target firm 𝑇 to 
have two types of shareholders: the first type is not subject to liquidity shocks, while the second type 
is subject to liquidity shocks causing investors to liquidate holdings at 𝑡 = 1. Specifically, the first type 
are atomistic investors. They are not subject to liquidity shocks and expect to hold the stock till the 
terminal date. We establish a pre-acquisition stock price, by assuming that on date 0, prior to the arrival 
of the acquirer, there is trading among atomistic investors. At this stage, the likelihood of an acquisition 
is considered to be very low (essentially zero) by these investors and the stock price is 𝑉𝑇 reflecting the 
stand-alone value of the target firm. The assumption that the acq uisition is unlikely is made for 
expositional simplicity and, as we discuss later (in Extension 1), has no qualitative implications for our 
analysis.  
The second investor type is exposed to liquidity shocks. These are large investors, say institutional 
investors, who in aggregate own a significant fraction 𝛼 of target stock.  These institutional investors 
face the risk of liquidity shocks on date 1. An example of such institutional investors are mutual funds 
that, for instance, face the risk of large redemptions that can induce a sale of assets, often at depressed 
prices.1 The liquidity shocks faced by individual institutional investors are assumed to be correlated 
and there is a probability  that the institutional investors are forced to liquidate, in agg regate, their 
holdings of 𝛼 shares of target stock at date 1. These aggregate orders are submitted to and absorbed 
by a market maker.  
                                                           
1 See, for instance, Coval and Stafford (2007) on mutual fund fire sales. 

=== PAGE 39 ===
38 
 
We assume that when there are large redemptions, the stock price is depressed on account of the 
inventory holding costs that the market maker has to bear as well, as the price discounts that may be 
necessary to attract sufficient new investors to clear the market.2 The extent to which stock prices are 
depressed and the speed with which the prices recover depends on the stoc k’s liquidity that 
encapsulates investor demand for the stock.  
The larger investors, who are subject to liquidity shocks, face a liquidity cost of T per share in 
target stock with probability 𝜋 (in the absence of a merger). On date 1, in the event of a liquidity shock, 
the large investors sell their holdings and receive a price of (VT – λT).  As is common in the literature, 
we refer to T  as a liquidity parameter, though it actually represents (il )liquidity. Hence, at date 0, the 
large investors’ valuation of the stock is  (𝑉𝑇 − 𝜋𝜆𝑇).  
To provide a rationale for these investors’ holding of target stock, we assume that large investors 
might be receiving offsetting benefits from their position in the stock. For instance, their holdings may 
be part of a broader portfolio diversification or investment strategy. In reduced form, we represent 
these potential benefits to a large investor by 𝜓.  Hence, from the perspective of these investors on 
date 0, their shares are worth (VT + ψ –  π  λT) in the absence of an acquisition, taking account of 
both the liquidity costs and the offsetting benefits. The as sumption here is that the net -benefit 
ψ –  π λT = 𝜅𝑇 ≥ 0, otherwise the shares would tend not to be retained by large investors. For 𝜅𝑇 to 
be non-negative, the benefits ψ must be large enough to offset the expected liquidity costs π λT. This 
suggests that f or shares that are held by large investors, the relationship between λT and 𝜅𝑇 is not 
direct and is moderated by ψ. 
The acquirer stock, in the absence of an acquisition, has a liquidity parameter of λA where we 
assume that λT >  λA, i.e., target stock is l ess liquid than acquirer stock, which is the empirically 
relevant case of interest. To determine the post-acquisition liquidity of the combined firm, we assume 
that if the acquirer does not expend any resources, the liquidity parameter will be 𝜆𝐴𝑇. However, if the 
post-acquisition firm was to expend resources 𝑐 (cost of additional disclosures, stock splits etc.) in 
equilibrium, the resulting liquidity of the firm would be 𝜆∗ such that: 
𝜆∗ = 𝜆𝐴𝑇 −  𝑓(𝑐).  
The term 𝑓(𝑐) represents the improvement in liquidity from expending resources 𝑐 and where 
𝑓(0) = 0; 𝑓′ > 0 & 𝑓′′ < 0.  We assume that in equilibrium market participants correctly anticipate 
that the firm will choose the disclosure policies through its choice of transparenc y, stock splits, 
managerial guidance to analysts at a cost of 𝑐, and the liquidity parameter of the merged firm 𝜆∗, to 
maximize firm value. For now, we take the optimal equilibrium 𝜆∗ as given and solve for the acquisition 
premium. The equilibrium 𝜆∗ is then characterized. 𝜆𝐴𝑇 (the liquidity parameter of the combined firm 
with 𝑐 = 0) is taken to be exogenously determined by the underlying  assets of 𝐴 and 𝑇. One 
reasonable assumption, which we make, is that 𝜆𝐴𝑇 can be expressed as the value weighted average of 
the pre-acquisition liquidities of the acquirer and target 3: 𝜆𝐴 and 𝜆𝑇 i.e., 𝜆𝐴𝑇 = 𝜔𝜆𝐴 +  (1 −  𝜔)𝜆𝑇, 
where 𝜔 =
𝑉𝐴
𝑉𝐴+𝑉𝑇
.  Under this assumption: 𝜆𝑇 > 𝜆𝐴𝑇 ≥ 𝜆∗ >  𝜆𝐴. Hence, there will be a liquidity loss 
from the merger for th e acquirer if the target firm is less liquid. With the additional cost of c, the 
acquirer can take actions to moderate the loss of liquidity. The cost c is determined optimally by the 
                                                           
2 See Duffie (2010) on the role of slow-moving capital.  
3 Under restrictive assumptions about information asymmetry it is possible to obtain a weighted average liquidity in a 
Milgrom-Glosten setting. Such a model is available from the authors.  

=== PAGE 40 ===
39 
 
acquirer after the acquisition. As we will see, c and the anticipated decrease in liquidity will reduce the 
synergy value of the merger and can affect the acquirer’s acquisition decision.  
We next consider the negotiation over the acquisition premium and the decision to merge. To 
determine the acquisition premium, the acquirer and the target boards of directors are taken to bargain 
over the acquisition price in an effort to maximize the total wealth of their respective shareholders, 
including the anticipated trading costs of  the target’s shareholders. The benefits received by 
shareholders are weighted by their respective share ownership of the firms.  
If the acquisition currency is stock, we assume that the likelihood that the target’s  large 
shareholders will face a liquidity shock and sell the shares of the merged firm is unaff ected by the 
merger. The surplus that is potentially created by the merger then consists of two pieces. One is the 
synergistic value 𝑉0
′ (unadjusted for costs associated with the acquisition) that we assume inherits the 
liquidity properties of the merged firm. Note that 𝑉0 represents the synergy value adjusted for various 
costs, including the loss from lower liquidity. The second is the anticipated reduction in liquidity costs 
when the target’s large shareholders obtain the stock in the merged firm in exchange for their holdings 
in the target. To obtain the surplus created by the merger, we note that in the absence of a merger, the 
large shareholder faces a probability 𝜋 of being subject to liquidity shocks and a resulting trading cost 
of 𝜆𝑇.  While a merger does not affect the likelihood of a liquidity shock, the anticipated trading cost 
is reduced since the liquidity parameter is expected to decrease to 𝜆∗.  We assume for simplicity that 
there is no change to the value of 𝜓.  Hence, the total surplus value (weighted value per share) created 
by the merger relative to the stand-alone value of the target firm can be expressed as: 
𝛥𝑉𝑆 = 𝑉0 + 𝛼 𝜋(𝜆𝑇 − 𝜆∗).                         (E-1) 
Note that since 𝜓 is not affected by the acquisition, it does not appear in the merger surplus equation 
(E-1). The second term on the right side,  𝛼𝜋(𝜆𝑇 − 𝜆∗), represents the expected reduction in liquidity 
costs times the fraction of shares that are liquidated. We assume that the bargaining between the boards 
of the target and the acquirer can be treated as a Nash bargaining game in which (for simplicity) the 
bargaining powers of the two parties are taken to be equal. As a result, the acquisition that takes place 
at a price, say 𝑃{𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘}, will be such that the surplus 𝛥𝑉𝑆 is shared equally between A and T. 
To obtain 𝑃{𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘}, we note that the surplus value that the acquirer receives from the 
acquisition is given by:  𝑉𝑇 + 𝑉0 − 𝑃{𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘}, while the weighted-average surplus value received by 
shareholders of the target is given by: 
𝑃{𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘} − 𝑉𝑇 + 𝛼𝜋(𝜆𝑇 − 𝜆∗). 
Given their equal bargaining power, we equate the surplus value received by the shareholders of the 
two firms to obtain the equation below: 
𝑃{𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘} − 𝑉𝑇 + 𝛼𝜋(𝜆𝑇 − 𝜆∗)  = 𝑉𝑇 + 𝑉0  −  𝑃{𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘},                          (E-2) 
or, 
𝑃{𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘} =  𝑉𝑇 +
1
2 (𝑉0 + 𝛼𝜋(𝜆𝑇 − 𝜆∗)).                                     (E-3)               
Observe that the acquisition premium  
1
2 (𝑉0 +  𝛼𝜋(𝜆𝑇 − 𝜆∗)) is decreasing in the liquidity of the 
acquirer (i.e., decreasing as 𝜆𝐴 decreases since, as discussed above, we take 𝜆𝐴𝑇 to be weighted average 

=== PAGE 41 ===
40 
 
of  𝜆𝐴, 𝜆𝑇 and it can be shown that 𝜆𝑇 − 𝜆∗ =  𝜔(𝜆𝐴 − 𝜆𝑇) + 𝑓(𝑐))) and increasing in the 
liquidity of the target (i.e., increasing in 𝜆𝑇, which follows from the expression for 𝜆𝑇 − 𝜆∗).  
      Next, we consider the effect of a non -pecuniary effort cost 𝐸, which might affect the merger 
decision (e.g., search for a suitable target). This cost is borne by the management of the acquirer prior 
to any merger negotiations (hence, cost 𝐸 is sunk and does not affect acquisition terms). The acquirer 
management will be willing to spend resources to uncover a target as long as: 
1
2 (𝛥𝑉𝑆) ≥ 𝐸.                                            (E-4) 
The above (weak) inequality implies that an increase in acquirer stock liquidity and a decrease in target 
stock liquidity (which increases the left-hand-side of (E-4)), makes it more likely that the inequality is 
satisfied and, hence, increases the likelihood of a stock -for-stock acquisition. The expression for the 
total surplus  𝛥𝑉𝑆 can be modified, as appropriate, to incorporate additional factors such as, for 
instance, the cost borne by target investors to investigate the quality and value of the acquirer firm.  
     We now obtain an expression for the equilibrium value of 𝜆∗ that is determined post -acquisition. 
It is assumed that the acquirer cannot pre -commit to a particular policy at the time of acquisition 
negotiation. Howe ver, since there is no information asymmetry, all market participants can fully 
anticipate the optimal choice that the acquirer will make after the merger has taken place. In reduced 
form we assume that greater liquidity costs tend to reduce firm value. This could happen, for instance, 
because it is more costly for the firm to raise external capital when the firm is less transparent. For 
simplicity, the value reduction is taken to be linear in the liquidity parameter 𝜆∗, i.e., 𝐿. 𝜆∗.  The value 
of the merged firm (𝑉𝑀) can be expressed as below, taking account of the cost of the liquidity as well 
as the cost 𝑐 that the acquirer can optimally expend to improve liquidity. Note that in the expression 
below the synergistic benefit is expressed as 𝑉0
′, the unadjusted synergy benefit: 
  
𝑉𝑀 = 𝑉𝐴 + 𝑉𝑇 + 𝑉0
′ − 𝐿. (𝜆∗) − 𝑐 
 
                                        ⟹    𝑉𝑀 = 𝑉𝐴 + 𝑉𝑇 + 𝑉0
′ − 𝐿. (𝜆𝐴𝑇 − 𝑓(𝑐)) − 𝑐.                                    (E-5)  
 
Hence, the optimal choice of 𝑐  is 𝑐∗such that: 𝐿 𝑓′(𝑐∗) = 1. We can, therefore, express the adjusted 
synergy: 𝑉0 = 𝑉0
′ − 𝐿𝜆∗ − 𝑐∗. As can be seem from this expression, if there is a substantial decrease 
in liquidity, the cost of liquidity might reduce the adjusted synergy value 𝑉0 to a level at which a stock 
acquisition is no longer desirable.  
For comparison purposes, we now discuss the effect of liquidity if the acquisition payment is in 
cash. If there are some dissipative costs to buying and selling shares on date 0, it will be optimal for 
the acquirer to pay in cash when the large investors would prefer to exit the ownership of the merged 
firm. This will be the case, for instance when 𝜓 − 𝜋𝜆∗ < 0.  In other words, while the large investors 
were willing to hold target stock, this can change if, for inst ance, the liquidity of the acquirer is 
sufficiently low i.e., when 𝜆𝐴 is sufficiently larger than 𝜆𝑇. 
In this case, the surplus created from the merger is Δ𝐶 = (𝑉0′ −  𝜅𝑇), where the term 𝜅𝑇 
represents the loss in value to the large investors from the acquisition. The price for a cash acquisition, 
obtained as above, will be: 𝑃{𝐶𝑎𝑠ℎ} = 𝑉𝑇 +
1
2 (𝑉0′ − 𝜅𝑇). Unlike 𝑃{𝑆𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘}, the acquisition price in cash 
deals is not affected by the acquirer’s liquidity. Target liquidity can have an effect because, as n oted 

=== PAGE 42 ===
41 
 
earlier, retention of target shares by large investors suggests an indirect relationship between  𝜅𝑇 and 
target liquidity, moderated by 𝜓. The choice between stock and cash comes down to which mode of 
acquisition generates the greater surplus. A stock acquisition would be preferred when: 
Δ𝑉𝑆 > Δ𝑉𝐶             (E-6) 
      Our simple model above yields a number of predictions that we test in our empirical analysis. We 
note that some of these predictions are specific to the acquisition currency hypothesis and allow us to 
distinguish this channel from the two alternatives we have discussed.  
Prediction 1: Firms with more liquid stock are more likely to make acquisitions and pay for these acquisitions with 
stock, ceteris paribus. Also, the more liquid is acquirers’ stock relative to targets’, the more of the overall payment for the 
acquisitions is paid in stock.  
      Prediction 1 follows directly from equation s (E-3) and (E -4) that, as discussed, impl y that greater 
(lower) acquirer (target) stock liquidity lowers the premium paid and, thereby, increases the likelihood 
of a stock-for-stock acquisition. The above arguments imply that when the cost of paying with cash is 
greater, as with cash constrained firms, the marginal benefit of stock liquidity and the use of stock as 
an acquisition currency will be correspondingly greater. In the model, for a cash constrained firm, the 
benefit from paying with stock rather than cash (E -6) can be interpreted in terms of an increase in 
total surplus Δ𝑉𝑆 from a stock acquisition. From Equation (E-6), this suggests that it will be easier to 
satisfy for a constrained firm, for a given level of acquirer liquidity.  
      Prediction 1 provides a test that separates the acquisition currency hypothesis from the alternatives. 
This is because our hypothesis predicts that the method of payment will depend on the liquidity of 
both the acquirer and the target. The alternative governance and valuation hypotheses have no such 
predictions. 
      The investment horizons of shareh olders in targets are expected to matter as well. Due to their 
relatively short horizon  in trading needs , short -term investors are likely to value acquirer’s stock 
liquidity more. Hence, we expect that, ceteris paribus, the sensitivity of stock payment to the acquirer’s 
stock liquidity will increase in shareholding by short-term investors in the target. 
      Equation (E-5) suggests that the dissynergy in acquirer liquidity from the acquisition of an illiquid 
target, i.e., the negative effect of 𝜆𝑇 on 𝜆𝐴𝑇 and ultimately 𝜆∗, depends not only on the relative liquidity 
of A and T but also on their relative size . Everything else being equal, the larger A (acquirer’s asset 
value) is relative to T (target’s asset value), the smaller the negative effect of 𝜆𝑇 on post-acquisition 
liquidity. In practice, A is often larger than T, and thus we expect the negative effect of the post -
acquisition dissynergy on account of target illiquidity to be small – relative to the positive effect of the 
acquirer-target liquidity difference on deal premium and the likelihood of stock acquisition.  
To confirm this from the data, we first sort the deals into deciles based on the relative size of the 
public acquirer and target (market capitalizations one month prior to the deal announcements). For 
each decile, in the table below, we present the mean of the pre-acquisition acquirer liquidity (−𝜆𝐴), the 
pre-acquisition target liquidity ( −𝜆𝑇), the value-weighted average of the pre -acquisition liquidities of 
the acquirer and target (−𝜆𝐴𝑇), and the post-acquisition acquirer liquidity (−𝜆∗). For the pre-acquisition 
liquidity, it is as of the year prior to the acquisition; for the post-acquisition liquidity, it is as of the year 
subsequent to the acquisition. The results are presented below for both liquidity measures, as 
constructed in Appendix A (so larger values of the measures indicate higher liquidity), respectively. As 
the liquidity notations in our model capture the illiquidity of a firm, we add a negative sign to these 
notations here (e.g., −𝜆𝐴) to indicate liquidity:  
 

=== PAGE 43 ===
42 
 
Deciles 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
Relative size  
(Acquirer/Target) 0.92 1.59 2.34 3.32 4.69 6.85 10.31 16.63 31.03 107.70 
           
AMH           
−𝜆𝑇 -4.87 -5.10 -6.28 -6.36 -6.17 -6.48 -6.15 -6.33 -5.85 -6.63 
−𝜆𝐴 -5.17 -4.68 -5.32 -4.97 -4.28 -4.26 -3.37 -3.17 -2.04 -2.19 
−𝜆𝐴𝑇 -4.97 -4.84 -5.61 -5.29 -4.61 -4.55 -3.61 -3.35 -2.17 -2.25 
−𝜆∗ -4.68 -4.36 -4.64 -4.48 -4.14 -4.03 -3.50 -3.23 -2.33 -2.48 
           
Spread           
−𝜆𝑇 5.14 4.87 4.94 4.65 4.65 4.79 4.42 4.60 4.41 4.49 
−𝜆𝐴 5.04 5.10 5.31 5.15 5.33 5.62 5.43 5.71 5.69 6.05 
−𝜆𝐴𝑇 5.11 5.01 5.20 5.03 5.21 5.52 5.34 5.64 5.65 6.03 
−𝜆∗ 5.31 5.34 5.55 5.42 5.60 5.90 5.71 5.92 5.88 6.19 
 
       As is clear from the first row indicating relative sizes, acquirers are much larger than targets for all 
deciles except the bottom decile (Decile 1) in which acquirers are on average slightly smaller than 
targets (the relative size ratio is 0.92). H owever, in the bottom decile, targets are more liquid than 
acquirers as −𝜆𝑇 is greater than −𝜆𝐴, and hence the dissynergy effect is not an issue. Instead, the 
dissynergy issue appears to be a more serious concern in the top deciles where targets tend to be more 
illiquid than acquirers. But, due to the targets’ relatively small size, the dissynergy effect is in fact 
minimal as can be seen from the small difference between −𝜆𝐴 and −𝜆𝐴𝑇. As such, while the 
dissynergy effect is a legitimate concern in theory, it does not seem to be a significant issue empirically 
in terms of the stock acquisitions observed. Consistent with the discussion above (equations (E-4) and 
(E-6)), if the dissynergy is expected to be large, there will either be no acquisition or an acquisition 
using cash. 
      Moreover, consistent with the acquirers being likely to take actions with an optimal 𝑐∗ to increase 
their post-acquisition liquidity, acquirers’ post-acquisition liquidity (−𝜆∗) are almost always greater than 
their pre-acquisition liquidity (−𝜆𝐴). This makes the potential dissynergy effect even less of a concern. 
      Our next prediction follows from equation (E-3) that the acquisition premium is lower (higher) if 
the acquirer’s (target’s) stock is highly liquid ( illiquid). We note that this prediction applies only to 
stock-for-stock acquisitions. As discussed above, this prediction does not apply to cash deals, because 
acquirers’ stock liquidity does not directly affect 𝑃{𝐶𝑎𝑠ℎ}.  As noted earlier, this helps to distinguish the 
valuation and governance channels from the acquisition currency channel. According to the alternative 
channels, we would expect an illiquid target to be acquired at a lower premium if acquirers were 
concerned about poor governance, lower in formation issues and uncertain valuation. However, this 
lower premium would be present no matter whether the target is acquired with stock or with cash. On 
the other hand, the acquisition currency channel predicts that target liquidity should affect the 
acquisition premium only when the payment is in stock – but not when it is in cash. We can state the 
second testable prediction:  
      Prediction 2: In stock-financed acquisitions, the higher the liquidity of acquirers’ stock relative to that of targets’, the 
lower will be the acquisition premium paid. This is not the case in cash-financed acquisitions.   
      Knowing that target shareholders will prefer more liquid stock in a stock-for-stock deal, which can 
in turn put acquirers’ shareholders in a more fav orable position in the exchange (e.g., paying lower 
premium), acquirers have an incentive to increase their stock liquidity in anticipation of a stock deal in 
the near future. They can, for instance, improve their transparency in the stock market by disclo sing 

=== PAGE 44 ===
43 
 
more information than what regulations mandate (e.g., providing more informative earnings guidance). 
They can also conduct stock splits to facilitate more trading by uninformed investors. Market makers 
can thus provide liquidity services at lower cost , which would result in higher propensity of trading 
and increase in liquidity.  
      The extant literature provides evidence that enhanced information disclosure and stock splits help 
to increase stock liquidity. For instance, Coller and Yohn  (1997) find that bid -ask spread reduces 
following management forecasts, while Lin, Singh, and Yu (2009) find declining incidence of no trading 
and lower liquidity risk following stock splits.4 This leads to our third prediction: 
       Prediction 3: Acquirers are more likely to take actions, such as providing earnings guidance and conducting stock 
splits, to increase their stock liquidity prior to stock deals. 
       It follows from our model that firms with more liquid stocks will be better positioned to make 
acquisitions and pay lower premiums than firms that are otherwise similar but have less liquid stocks. 
This leads to our fourth testable prediction: 
      Prediction 4: The more liquid the acquirer’s stock is relative to that of the target’s stock, th e more the gains to 
acquirer shareholders in a stock deal, ceteris paribus. 
 
Extension 1: Acquisition is Anticipated with Non-Zero Probability on Date 0 
 
At the start of date 0 we assumed that there is trading between atomistic investors of the target firm. 
When the likelihood of acquisition is almost zero, the stock price will be 𝑉𝑇, representing the 
anticipated payoffs on date 2. Now, we consider the po ssibility that target investors expect an 
acquisition to occur later on date 0 with a probability denoted by 𝜙.   
Trading between the risk -neutral atomistic investors in this case would occur at a stock price 𝑃0
∗ 
reflecting the expected possibilities. Th ere will be no difference in the price at which the acquisition 
would occur. If the acquisition is expected to occur at a price of 𝑃{𝑠𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘}, we have: 
𝑃0
∗ = 𝜙𝑃{𝑠𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘} + (1 − 𝜙)𝑉𝑇. 
The higher price will have a quantitative, though not a qualitative effect on the announcement premium.  
The acquisition premium will be:  
𝑃{𝑠𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘} − 𝑃0
∗ = (1 − 𝜙)[𝑃{𝑠𝑡𝑜𝑐𝑘} −  𝑉𝑇]. 
Hence, the premium will be affected by a ‘lack of surprise’ factor (𝜙). This does not affect the nature 
of the effect of the liquidity on the acquis ition premium, though these effects would be tempered by 
the ‘lack of surprise’ factor. However, the effect of anticipation is not unusual in our setting and is a 
concern in any study in which stock market announcement effects are of interest.  
 
  
                                                           
4 Several other papers find similar evidence. For instance, Balakrish nanet al. (2014) show that firms respond to an 
exogenous loss of public information by providing more timely and informative earnings guidance, which results in an 
improvement in liquidity. Muscarella and Vetsuypens (1996) study splits of American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) that are 
not associated with splits in their home -country stock and argue that the positive announcement return of stock splits 
reflect the increase in liquidity. 

=== PAGE 45 ===
44 
 
Table 1: Summary Statistics 
This table presents summary statistics of firm and deal characteristics. Panel A presents firm characteristics for the overall 
sample of Compustat-CRSP firms over the sample period 1984-2018. Panel B reports characteristics for acquirers of only 
public targets. Panel C presents characteristics of public targets, and Panel D shows characteristics of deals involving public 
targets. 
Variable N Mean SD Median 
Panel A: Overall Sample of  Compustat-CRSP Firms 
AMH 142053 -6.830 5.281 -5.794 
Spread 142053 4.568 1.663 4.234 
Acquisition (Dummy) 142053 0.075 0.263 0.000 
Stockacq (Dummy) 142053 0.031 0.174 0.000 
Firm Size 142053 5.802 2.236 5.715 
Ind_Stock_Return 142053 -0.005 0.572 -0.065 
Leverage 142053 0.319 0.334 0.265 
 Leverage 142053 0.001 0.274 0.000 
Market-to-Book 142053 1.981 2.348 1.314 
Tangibility 142053 0.237 0.245 0.146 
Volatility 142053 0.699 0.439 0.585 
  Panel B: Acquirers of  public targets 
AMH 3032 -3.947 4.776 -1.857 
Spread 3032 5.442 1.518 5.004 
Analysts 3032 9.895 11.356 6.000 
Credit rating 3032 15.161 7.084 15.000 
FCF 3032 0.005 0.185 0.022 
Firm Size 3032 7.945 1.910 7.959 
Leverage 3032 0.374 0.269 0.357 
Market-to-Book 3032 1.996 1.830 1.421 
Runup 3032 0.044 0.234 0.014 
Profitability 3032 0.027 0.092 0.029 
Panel C: Public Targets 
AMH        3032 -6.022 5.141 -4.610 
Spread 3032 4.697 1.464 4.294 
Analysts 3032 4.306 6.813 1.000 
FCF 3032 -0.004 0.093 0.000 
Firm Size 3032 6.287 1.714 6.221 
Leverage 3032 0.337 0.287 0.309 
Market-to-Book 3032 20.508 50.839 3.512 
Profitability 3032 -0.008 0.149 0.014 
 
Panel D: Characteristics of  deals involving public targets 
 
Relative Liquidity (AMH) 3032 2.056 2.123 1.748 
Relative Liquidity (Spread) 3032 0.755 0.934 0.655 
Acquirer’s CAR 2949 -0.020 0.081 -0.014 
Competing Bid  3032 0.069 0.254 0.000 
Ln(deal size) 3032 1.592 2.576 0.379 
Stockpay 3032 0.575 0.437 0.712 
Premium    2837 0.268 0.383 0.253 
Related Deal  3032 0.514 0.500 1.000 
Tender Offer  3032 0.153 0.360 0.000 

=== PAGE 46 ===
45 
 
Table 2: The Effect of Liquidity on Likelihood of (Stock) Acquisition 
Panel A of this table presents coefficient estimates from OLS regressions that examine the impact of firms’ stock liquidity 
on the likelihood of making acquisitions (columns 1 -2) and the likelihood of making stock acquisitions (columns 3 -4) for 
the full sample. In columns 1-2 (columns 3-4), the dependent variable is a dummy variable that takes a value of one if a 
firm makes an (stock) acquisition in the fiscal year, and zero otherwise. Panel B of this table presents coefficient estimates 
from OLS regressions that examine how the impact of firms’ stock liquidity on the likelihood of making stock acquisitions 
varies across firms with varying degree of financial constraints for the full sample. The dependent variable is a dummy 
variable that takes a value of one if a firm makes a stock acquisition in the fiscal year, and zero otherwise . The full sample 
is divided into terciles based on the financial constraint measure (Kaplan-Zingales Index in columns 1-2; Whited-Wu Index 
in columns 3-4; and Hadlock-Pierce index in columns 5-6). Constraint Dummy takes a value of one for firms that fall in the 
highest tercile and zero for firms that fall in the lowest tercile. The liquidity measure used in each regression is indicated at 
the top of the column. Other explanatory variables are defined in Appendix A. Year x Industry fixed effects are included 
in all regressions. Robust standard errors are clustered by firm and reported in parentheses. *, **, and *** indicate 
significance at 10%, 5%, and 1% respectively.  
Panel A 
Dependent Variable: Acquisition Stock Acquisition 
Liquidity measure: AMH Spread AMH Spread 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) 
     
Liquidity 0.006*** 0.014*** 0.004*** 0.002*** 
 (0.000) (0.001) (0.000) (0.001) 
Leverage -0.013*** -0.002 -0.010*** -0.007*** 
 (0.003) (0.003) (0.002) (0.002) 
Δ Leverage -0.012*** -0.017*** -0.002 -0.004* 
 (0.003) (0.003) (0.002) (0.002) 
Tangibility -0.055*** -0.055*** -0.018*** -0.019*** 
 (0.005) (0.005) (0.002) (0.003) 
Market-to-Book 0.001*** 0.002*** 0.003*** 0.004*** 
 (0.000) (0.000) (0.000) (0.000) 
Firm Size 0.006*** 0.002*** 0.002*** 0.003*** 
 (0.001) (0.001) (0.000) (0.000) 
Ind_Stock_Return 0.022*** 0.020*** 0.012*** 0.011*** 
 (0.001) (0.001) (0.001) (0.001) 
Volatility 0.006** -0.018*** 0.018*** 0.004*** 
 (0.002) (0.002) (0.002) (0.001) 
Constant 0.096*** 0.020*** 0.030*** -0.002 
 (0.005) (0.005) (0.003) (0.003) 
Observations 142053 142053 142053 142053 
Adjusted R2 0.039 0.036 0.042 0.039 
Year x Industry F.E. Yes Yes Yes Yes 
 
  

=== PAGE 47 ===
46 
 
Panel B 
Dependent Variable: Stock Acquisition 
 Kaplan-Zingales Index Whited-Wu Index Hadlock-Pierce Index 
 AMH Spread AMH Spread AMH Spread 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 
       
Liquidity 0.003*** 0.001 0.004*** 0.000 0.003*** 0.001 
 (0.000) (0.001) (0.000) (0.001) (0.000) (0.001) 
Liquidity x Constraint Dummy 0.002*** 0.004*** 0.000 0.007*** 0.001*** 0.008*** 
 (0.000) (0.001) (0.000) (0.001) (0.000) (0.001) 
Constraint Dummy 0.005*** 0.007*** -0.000 0.003 0.005** 0.012*** 
 (0.002) (0.002) (0.003) (0.003) (0.002) (0.002) 
Leverage -0.013*** -0.010*** -0.008*** -0.004* -0.008*** -0.005** 
 (0.002) (0.002) (0.002) (0.002) (0.002) (0.002) 
Δ Leverage -0.002 -0.003 -0.003 -0.004* -0.005* -0.006** 
 (0.002) (0.002) (0.003) (0.003) (0.002) (0.002) 
Tangibility -0.020*** -0.021*** -0.019*** -0.020*** -0.020*** -0.020*** 
 (0.003) (0.003) (0.003) (0.003) (0.003) (0.003) 
Market-to-Book 0.002*** 0.003*** 0.003*** 0.003*** 0.003*** 0.003*** 
 (0.000) (0.000) (0.000) (0.000) (0.000) (0.000) 
Firm Size 0.002*** 0.003*** 0.001* 0.002*** 0.003*** 0.005*** 
 (0.000) (0.001) (0.001) (0.001) (0.001) (0.001) 
Ind_Stock_Return 0.013*** 0.012*** 0.011*** 0.010*** 0.011*** 0.010*** 
 (0.001) (0.001) (0.001) (0.001) (0.001) (0.001) 
Volatility 0.020*** 0.005*** 0.015*** 0.005*** 0.016*** 0.005*** 
 (0.002) (0.002) (0.002) (0.002) (0.002) (0.002) 
Constant 0.027*** 0.003 0.042*** 0.018*** 0.026*** 0.002 
 (0.004) (0.003) (0.006) (0.007) (0.004) (0.004) 
Observations 98077 98077 95103 95103 99437 99437 
Adjusted R2 0.043 0.039 0.048 0.045 0.045 0.042 
Year x Industry F.E. Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
 
  

=== PAGE 48 ===
47 
 
Table 3: The Effect of Liquidity on Likelihood of (Stock) Acquisition: Diff-in-Diff Approach 
using Decimalization of 2001 
This table presents estimates from the difference-in-differences approach using decimalization. The treatment and control 
groups are constructed using propensity score matching. First, we measure the change in liquidity (AMH and Spre ad 
separately) from the pre-decimalization year (t – 1) to the post-decimalization year (t + 1). We then assign firms into terciles 
based on the respective change in liquidity ranking. We retain firms in the first and third tercile , which experience the 
smallest and the largest increase in liquidity following decimalization , respectively. We then estimate a probit model in 
which the dependent variable is set to one for firms in the third tercile and zero for firms in the first tercile. The probit 
model includes all control variables from our baseline regression measured in year immediately preceding decimalization. 
Panel A reports the results of the probit regressions  for pre- and post-match. The liquidity measure used to compute the 
change variable is highlighted at the top of the column. We then use the propensity scores (predicted probabilities) to 
match firms in the two groups. Each firm in the third tercile is matched to a firm in the first tercile with the closest 
propensity score and w ith a pr opensity score match within 0.0 1 (nearest -neighbor propensity score matching wit h 1 
neighbor and caliper of 0.0 1 and with no replacement allowed). In the case of multiple match es (ties), we retain the pair 
for which the distance between the two firms’ propensity scores is the smallest. Panel B plots the distribution of predictions 
of the propensity scores estimated in the original sample and in the matched subsample. Panel C presents the univariate 
comparisons between the treatment and control firms’ pre-decimalization characteristics and their corresponding p-values. 
Panel D reports the diff-in-diff analyses in a regression framework where Treated is a dummy variable equal to one (zero) 
if a stock is part of the treatment (control) group.  Decimal is a dummy variable equal to one for 2002 and later , and zero 
for 2000 or earlier. Panel E reports regression estimates of the (stock) acquisition dynamics of treatment and control firms 
surrounding decimalization. Robust standard errors are clustered by firm and reported in parentheses. *, **, and *** indicate 
significance at 10%, 5%, and 1% respectively.  
Panel A: Pre-and Post-match probit regressions 
 Pre-match Post-match 
Dependent Variable Dummy=1 if  in 
treatment group; 0 if  
in control group 
Dummy=1 if  in 
treatment group; 0 if  
in control group 
Dummy=1 if  in 
treatment group; 0 if  in 
control group 
Dummy=1 if  in 
treatment group; 0 if  
in control group 
 AMH Spread AMH Spread 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) 
Liquidityt-1 -0.117*** -0.703*** -0.007 0.058 
 (0.016) (0.038) (0.033) (0.085) 
Leveraget-1 0.085 -0.158* -0.034 0.161 
 (0.100) (0.094) (0.195) (0.190) 
Δ Leveraget-1,t-2 0.087 0.010 -0.147 -0.049 
 (0.096) (0.095) (0.213) (0.191) 
Tangibilityt-1 0.266* 0.110 0.495 0.189 
 (0.165) (0.167) (0.347) (0.334) 
Market-to-Bookt-1 0.008 0.046*** 0.006 -0.012 
 (0.010) (0.010) (0.023) (0.022) 
Firm Sizet-1 0.157*** 0.255*** -0.003 -0.044 
 (0.025) (0.020) (0.053) (0.043) 
Ind_Stock_Returnt-1 0.698*** 0.542*** -0.249 0.023 
 (0.048) (0.047) (0.181) (0.101) 
Volatilityt-1 -1.054*** -1.008*** -0.135 -0.072 
 (0.085) (0.087) (0.180) (0.181) 
Constant -0.958*** 1.514*** -0.344 0.499 
 (0.322) (0.282) (0.661) (0.555) 
Observations 3437 3427 1340 1492 
Pseudo R2 0.364 0.332 0.009 0.009 
Industry F.E. Yes Yes Yes Yes 
    
 
 

=== PAGE 49 ===
48 
 
 
Panel B: Overlay of density distributions of propensity scores before and after propensity score matching.   
   
 
Panel C: Differences in variables in pre-decimalization year 
 Using AMH 
 Treatment Control Difference P-value 
Liquidityt-1 -5.40 -5.35 -0.05 0.72 
Leveraget-1 0.33 0.33 0.00 0.89 
Δ Leveraget-1,t-2 -0.01 0.00 -0.01 0.60 
Tangibilityt-1 0.26 0.24 0.02 0.17 
Market-to-Bookt-1 2.09 2.17 -0.08 0.61 
Firm Sizet-1 5.28 5.27 0.01 0.91 
Ind_Stock_Returnt-1 -0.01 0.03 -0.04 0.16 
Volatilityt-1 0.81 0.82 -0.01 0.49 
     
                                 Using Spread 
Liquidityt-1 3.76 3.76 0.00 0.98 
Leveraget-1 0.35 0.34 0.01 0.81 
Δ Leveraget-1,t-2 -0.01 -0.01 0.00 0.97 
Tangibilityt-1 0.25 0.24 0.01 0.43 
Market-to-Bookt-1 2.11 2.12 -0.01 0.92 
Firm Sizet-1 5.61 5.65 -0.04 0.68 
Ind_Stock_Returnt-1 0.03 0.02 0.01 0.57 
Volatilityt-1 0.77 0.77 0.00 0.93 
 
 
 
 


=== PAGE 50 ===
49 
 
Panel D: Difference-in-Difference Analysis of  the Effect of  Stock Liquidity on Likelihood of  (Stock) Acquisition 
Dependent Variable: Acquisition Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition 
 AMH Spread AMH Spread 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) 
     
Treated x Decimal 0.042*** 0.030** 0.019*** 0.019** 
 (0.014) (0.015) (0.007) (0.010) 
Treated 0.031*** 0.038*** 0.004 0.012 
 (0.011) (0.012) (0.005) (0.009) 
Decimal -0.038*** -0.042*** -0.030*** -0.039*** 
 (0.008) (0.009) (0.005) (0.006) 
Leverage -0.032*** -0.013 -0.015** -0.006 
 (0.011) (0.013) (0.006) (0.008) 
Δ Leverage -0.008 -0.016 0.003 -0.005 
 (0.013) (0.014) (0.007) (0.008) 
Tangibility -0.091*** -0.085*** -0.042*** -0.026** 
 (0.022) (0.022) (0.011) (0.012) 
Market-to-Book 0.002 0.001 0.004*** 0.003** 
 (0.002) (0.002) (0.001) (0.001) 
Firm Size 0.013*** 0.019*** 0.008*** 0.014*** 
 (0.003) (0.003) (0.001) (0.002) 
Ind_Stock_Return 0.020*** 0.011** 0.008*** 0.004 
 (0.006) (0.006) (0.003) (0.004) 
Volatility 0.014 0.023* 0.041*** 0.042*** 
 (0.012) (0.012) (0.006) (0.008) 
Constant 0.025 -0.018 -0.030*** -0.058*** 
 (0.020) (0.022) (0.011) (0.015) 
Observations 7341 8179 7341 8179 
Pseudo R2 0.035 0.046 0.030 0.045 
Industry F.E. Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Window [t-3, t+3] [t-3, t+3] [t-3, t+3] [t-3, t+3] 
 
Panel E 
Dependent Variable: Acquisition Stock Acquisition 
 AMH Spread AMH Spread 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) 
Before (t-2 & t-3) x Treated 0.014 -0.023 0.018 -0.003 
 (0.024) (0.021) (0.016) (0.013) 
Current x Treated 0.037 0.001 0.012 -0.006 
 (0.023) (0.025) (0.016) (0.020) 
After (t+1) x Treated 0.089*** 0.058** 0.028** 0.004 
 (0.024) (0.026) (0.014) (0.014) 
After (t+2 & t+3) x Treated 0.075*** 0.038** 0.019* 0.016* 
 (0.020) (0.019) (0.012) (0.010) 
Before (t-2 & t-3)  0.026 0.047** 0.003 0.012 
 (0.017) (0.019) (0.011) (0.016) 
Current -0.034** -0.028* -0.017 -0.023* 
 (0.015) (0.015) (0.011) (0.012) 
After (t+1)  -0.059*** -0.051*** -0.041*** -0.042*** 
 (0.014) (0.012) (0.009) (0.009) 
After (t+2 & t+3)  -0.050*** -0.048*** -0.037*** -0.046*** 
 (0.013) (0.012) (0.010) (0.009) 
Treated 0.011 0.051* -0.004 0.024 
 (0.018) (0.028) (0.013) (0.023) 
Constant 0.084*** 0.083*** 0.043*** 0.050*** 
 (0.012) (0.018) (0.009) (0.015) 
Observations 8641 9634 8641 9634 
Adjusted R2 0.033 0.046 0.021 0.042 
Industry F.E. Yes Yes Yes Yes 

=== PAGE 51 ===
50 
 
Table 4: The Effect of Liquidity on Likelihood of (Stock) Acquisition: Diff-in-Diff Approach 
using Shift in Minimum Tick Size of 1997 
This table presents estimates from the difference-in-differences approach using the shift in the minimum tick size of 1997 
from $1/8th to $1/16th. The treatment and control groups are constructed using propensity score matching. First, we 
measure the change in liquidity (AMH and Spread separately) from the pre -shift year (t – 1) to the post-shift year (t + 1). 
We then assign firms into terciles based on the respective change in liquidity ranking. We retain firms in the first and third 
tercile. Firms in the first (third) tercile experience the smallest (largest) increase in liquidity following the shift in minimum 
tick size in 1997. We then estimate a probit model in which the dependent variable is set to one for firms in the third tercile 
and zero for firms in the first tercile. The probit model includes all control variables from our baseline regression measured 
in year immediately preceding 1997. Panel A reports the results of the probit regressions  for pre- and post-match. The 
liquidity measure used to compute the change variable is highlighted at the top of the column. We then use the propensity 
scores (predicted probabilities) to match firms in the two groups. Each firm in the third tercile is matched to a firm in the 
first tercile with the closest propensity score and with a pr opensity score match within 0.0 1 (nearest-neighbor propensity 
score matching wit h 1 neighbor and caliper of 0.0 1 and with no replacement allowed). In the case of multiple match es 
(ties), we retain the pair for which the distance between the two firms’ propensity scores is the smallest. Panel B plots the 
distribution of predictions of the propensity scores estimated in th e original sample and in the matched subsample. Panel 
C presents the univariate comparisons between the treatment and control firms’ pre -1997 characteristics and thei r 
corresponding p -values. Panel D reports the diff-in-diff analyses in a regression framew ork where Treated is a dummy 
variable equal to one (zero) if a stock is part of the treatment (control) group.  Shift is a dummy variable equal to one for 
1998 and later, and zero for 1996 or earlier . Panel E reports regression estimates of the (stock) acquisition dynamics of 
treatment and control firms surrounding decimalization.  Robust standard errors are clustered by firm and reported in 
parentheses. *, **, and *** indicate significance at 10%, 5%, and 1% respectively.  
Panel A: Pre-and Post-match probit regressions 
 Pre-match Post-match 
Dependent Variable Dummy=1 if  in 
treatment group; 0 if  
in control group 
Dummy=1 if  in 
treatment group; 0 if  
in control group 
Dummy=1 if  in 
treatment group; 0 if  in 
control group 
Dummy=1 if  in 
treatment group; 0 if  
in control group 
 AMH Spread  AMH Spread 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) 
Liquidityt-1 -0.208*** -0.334*** 0.012 0.067 
 (0.015) (0.047) (0.031) (0.094) 
Leveraget-1 -0.269*** -0.535*** 0.024 0.083 
 (0.087) (0.094) (0.172) (0.187) 
Δ Leveraget-1,t-2 0.108 0.209** -0.055 -0.001 
 (0.078) (0.086) (0.152) (0.171) 
Tangibilityt-1 -0.356** -0.178 -0.001 0.168 
 (0.143) (0.151) (0.281) (0.303) 
Market-to-Bookt-1 0.097*** 0.024** 0.021 0.011 
 (0.012) (0.012) (0.025) (0.022) 
Firm Sizet-1 0.340*** 0.016 0.018 -0.013 
 (0.025) (0.022) (0.051) (0.045) 
Ind_Stock_Returnt-1 0.775*** 0.604*** -0.003 0.107 
 (0.044) (0.045) (0.092) (0.092) 
Volatilityt-1 0.834*** 1.293*** 0.226 0.164 
 (0.102) (0.112) (0.196) (0.233) 
Constant -3.701*** 0.410*** 0.069 -0.434 
 (0.288) (0.267) (0.589) (0.517) 
Observations 3789 3781 2047 1996 
Pseudo R2 0.214 0.231 0.008 0.007 
Industry F.E. Yes Yes Yes Yes 
 
 
 

=== PAGE 52 ===
51 
 
Panel B: Overlay of density distributions of propensity scores before and after propensity score matching.   
   
 
Panel C: Differences in variables in pre-shift in minimum tick size year 
 Using AMH 
 Treatment Control Difference P-value 
Liquidityt-1 -5.35 -5.39 0.04 0.75 
Leveraget-1 0.30 0.30 0.00 0.70 
Δ Leveraget-1,t-2 -0.01 -0.01 0.00 0.94 
Tangibilityt-1 0.25 0.24 0.01 0.51 
Market-to-Bookt-1 2.34 2.24 0.10 0.27 
Firm Sizet-1 4.80 4.83 -0.03 0.72 
Ind_Stock_Returnt-1 0.03 0.02 0.01 0.81 
Volatilityt-1 0.62 0.61 0.01 0.31 
     
                                  Using Spread 
Liquidityt-1 3.61 3.61 0.00 0.96 
Leveraget-1 0.31 0.31 0.00 0.78 
Δ Leveraget-1,t-2 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.90 
Tangibilityt-1 0.23 0.22 0.01 0.17 
Market-to-Bookt-1 2.40 2.33 0.07 0.52 
Firm Sizet-1 5.27 5.27 0.00 0.92 
Ind_Stock_Returnt-1 0.07 0.03 0.04 0.14 
Volatilityt-1 0.56 0.56 0.00 0.65 
 
 
 
 
 


=== PAGE 53 ===
52 
 
Panel D: Difference-in-Difference Analysis of  the Effect of  Stock Liquidity on Likelihood of  (Stock) Acquisition 
Dependent Variable: Acquisition Stock Acquisition 
 AMH Spread AMH Spread 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) 
     
Treated x Shift 0.053*** 0.048*** 0.022** 0.029*** 
 (0.015) (0.017) (0.011) (0.010) 
Treated 0.022* 0.010 0.027*** 0.016** 
 (0.014) (0.016) (0.010) (0.008) 
Shift -0.058*** -0.095*** -0.036*** -0.072*** 
 (0.010) (0.013) (0.007) (0.008) 
Leverage 0.014 0.023 -0.020** -0.009 
 (0.012) (0.014) (0.009) (0.009) 
Δ Leverage -0.019 -0.032* 0.009 -0.004 
 (0.013) (0.019) (0.010) (0.010) 
Tangibility -0.074*** -0.069*** -0.032** -0.041** 
 (0.022) (0.026) (0.015) (0.017) 
Market-to-Book 0.003* 0.004** 0.007*** 0.007*** 
 (0.002) (0.002) (0.002) (0.001) 
Firm Size 0.010*** 0.024*** 0.011*** 0.021*** 
 (0.003) (0.003) (0.002) (0.002) 
Ind_Stock_Return 0.040*** 0.044*** 0.027*** 0.030*** 
 (0.006) (0.007) (0.005) (0.004) 
Volatility -0.006 0.021* 0.034*** 0.052*** 
 (0.012) (0.013) (0.009) (0.009) 
Constant 0.071*** 0.020 -0.025* -0.049*** 
 (0.021) (0.023) (0.014) (0.014) 
Observations 10293 10280 10293 10280 
Pseudo R2 0.047 0.074 0.048 0.082 
Industry F.E. Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Window [t-3, t+3] [t-3, t+3] [t-3, t+3] [t-3, t+3] 
 
Panel E 
Dependent Variable: Acquisition Stock Acquisition 
 AMH Spread AMH Spread 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) 
Before (t-2 & t-3) x Treated -0.037 0.000 -0.021 -0.004 
 (0.023) (0.024) (0.013) (0.019) 
Current x Treated 0.024 0.002 0.006 -0.005 
 (0.026) (0.028) (0.019) (0.022) 
After (t+1) x Treated 0.084*** 0.031 0.036** 0.014 
 (0.025) (0.026) (0.018) (0.020) 
After (t+2 & t+3) x Treated 0.076*** 0.064*** 0.040*** 0.031* 
 (0.021) (0.023) (0.016) (0.019) 
Before (t-2 & t-3)  -0.003 -0.013 0.006 -0.008 
 (0.016) (0.016) (0.011) (0.013) 
Current 0.005 0.036* 0.012 0.031** 
 (0.017) (0.020) (0.011) (0.015) 
After (t+1)  -0.026* 0.008 -0.009 -0.003 
 (0.016) (0.018) (0.012) (0.013) 
After (t+2 & t+3)  -0.056*** -0.072*** -0.018 -0.041*** 
 (0.014) (0.016) (0.012) (0.012) 
Treated 0.031 0.022 0.033* 0.031* 
 (0.019) (0.021) (0.017) (0.017) 
Constant 0.103*** 0.140*** 0.038*** 0.077*** 
 (0.013) (0.015) (0.011) (0.011) 
Observations 11683 11778 11683 11778 
Adjusted R2 0.039 0.055 0.029 0.069 
Industry F.E. Yes Yes Yes Yes 
 

=== PAGE 54 ===
53 
 
Table 5: The Effect of Actual Change in Liquidity around Decimalization and Shift in 1997 
on Likelihood of (Stock) Acquisition 
Panel A (Panel B) of this table presents coefficient estimates from linear probability regressions on the relation between a 
firm’s change in stock liquidity surrounding decimalization of 2001 (shift in minimum tick size of 1997) and the probability 
of (stock) acquisitions immediately following the change in liquidity. Δ denotes the change in each variable from the fiscal 
year before decimalization /shift in minimum tick size of 1997  (year t–1) to the fiscal year after decimalization /shift in 
minimum tick size of 1997 (year t+1) where t indicates the year during which decimalization/shift in minimum tick size of 
1997 went into effect for the firm. Robust standard errors are clustered by firm and reported in parentheses. *, **, and *** 
indicate significance at 10%, 5%, and 1% respectively.  
Panel A: Effect of changes in liquidity surrounding decimalization of 2001 on likelihood of (stock) acquisition 
Dependent Variable: Acquisition Stock Acquisition 
 AMH Spread AMH Spread 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) 
Δ Liquidity 0.013*** 0.025*** 0.003* 0.007* 
 (0.003) (0.007) (0.002) (0.004) 
Δ Leverage -0.006 -0.006 0.003 0.004 
 (0.009) (0.009) (0.007) (0.006) 
Δ Tangibility -0.018 -0.022 0.001 0.001 
 (0.048) (0.048) (0.028) (0.026) 
Δ Market-to-Book -0.004 -0.004 -0.002* -0.002 
 (0.003) (0.003) (0.001) (0.001) 
Δ Firm Size 0.021** 0.028*** 0.001 0.001 
 (0.010) (0.010) (0.005) (0.006) 
Δ Ind_Stock_Return -0.008 -0.009 -0.004 -0.005 
 (0.006) (0.006) (0.003) (0.003) 
Δ Volatility -0.016 -0.015 -0.011 -0.010 
 (0.012) (0.012) (0.007) (0.008) 
Constant 0.078*** 0.063*** 0.026*** 0.022*** 
 (0.005) (0.005) (0.003) (0.002) 
Observations 5256 5256 5256 5256 
Pseudo R2 0.036 0.035 0.011 0.011 
Industry F.E. Yes Yes Yes Yes 
 
Panel B: Effect of changes in liquidity surrounding minimum tick size shift of 1997 on likelihood of (stock) 
acquisition 
Dependent Variable: Acquisition Stock Acquisition 
 AMH Spread AMH Spread 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) 
Δ Liquidity 0.020*** 0.048*** 0.014*** 0.036*** 
 (0.006) (0.015) (0.004) (0.012) 
Δ Leverage -0.026* -0.028* -0.008 -0.010 
 (0.015) (0.015) (0.010) (0.010) 
Δ Tangibility -0.071 -0.073 0.047 0.046 
 (0.056) (0.056) (0.043) (0.043) 
Δ Market-to-Book 0.006** 0.006** 0.006*** 0.007*** 
 (0.003) (0.003) (0.002) (0.002) 
Δ Firm Size 0.141*** 0.145*** 0.073*** 0.075*** 
 (0.017) (0.017) (0.013) (0.013) 
Δ Ind_Stock_Return 0.009 0.006 0.002 0.001 
 (0.008) (0.008) (0.006) (0.006) 
Δ Volatility 0.028 0.028 0.034** 0.036** 
 (0.021) (0.021) (0.014) (0.014) 
Constant 0.119*** 0.116*** 0.069*** 0.067*** 
 (0.005) (0.005) (0.004) (0.004) 
Observations 6673 6673 6673 6673 
Pseudo R2 0.064 0.064 0.063 0.063 
Industry F.E. Yes Yes Yes Yes 
 

=== PAGE 55 ===
54 
 
Table 6: Cross-sectional Variations in the Impact of Decimalization on Likelihood of (Stock) 
Acquisition, Fraction of Payment in Stock, and Deal Premium 
This table presents coefficient estimates from regressions of the following specification:  
Yi,t = α0 + α1 Low Pricei,t-1 + α2 Low Pricei,t-1 x Decimal + α3 Decimal + α4 Controls + εi,t. 
In panel A, Yi,t is the outcome variable regarding a firm ’s acquisition decision (Columns (1) and (3) ), a firm’s sto ck 
acquisition decision (Column s (2) and (4) ), and the fraction of payment in stock (Column 5). In panel B  (C), Yi,t is deal 
premium (CAR) for the subsamples of stock  (Column 1) and cash acquisitions (Column 2) involving public targets. Low 
Price is a dummy variable that equals one if an acquirer’s closing price at the end of fiscal year t–1 falls below the median 
closing price in that year , and zero otherwise. Decimal is a dummy variable equal to one for 2002 and later , and zero for 
2000 or earlier. Other explanatory variables are defined in Appe ndix A. We include Year x Industry fixed effects for the 
periods of 1985-1999 and 2003 -2018. Standard errors are clustered by firm in columns (1) -(4) of panel A and by Year x 
Industry in the rest, and are reported in the parentheses. *, **, and *** indicate significance at 10%, 5% and 1% respectively. 
Panel A: Likelihood of (Stock) Acquisition and Fraction of Payment in Stock 
 OLS OLS OLS OLS TOBIT 
Dependent Variable: Acquisition Stock Acquisition Acquisition Stock Acquisition Fraction of payment in 
stock 
 (1) (3) (3) (4) (5) 
Low Price -0.027*** -0.021*** -0.034*** -0.020*** -0.291*** 
 (0.003) (0.002) (0.005) (0.003) (0.020) 
Low Price x Decimal 0.010*** 0.026*** 0.010* 0.025*** 0.441*** 
 (0.003) (0.002) (0.006) (0.004) (0.022) 
Decimal -0.029*** -0.038*** -0.003 -0.016*** -5.726*** 
 (0.004) (0.002) (0.006) (0.004) (0.021) 
Leverage -0.008*** -0.009*** -0.022*** -0.016*** -0.005 
 (0.003) (0.002) (0.005) (0.003) (0.033) 
Δ Leverage -0.015*** -0.004* -0.011** -0.005  
 (0.003) (0.002) (0.006) (0.004)  
Tangibility -0.062*** -0.022*** -0.084*** -0.029*** -0.404*** 
 (0.005) (0.003) (0.008) (0.005) (0.041) 
Market-to-Book_a 0.003*** 0.004*** 0.004*** 0.005*** 0.110*** 
 (0.000) (0.000) (0.001) (0.001) (0.006) 
Firm Size_a 0.008*** 0.005*** 0.011*** 0.009*** -0.102*** 
 (0.001) (0.000) (0.001) (0.001) (0.003) 
Ind_Stock_Return 0.017*** 0.010*** 0.013*** 0.010***  
 (0.001) (0.001) (0.002) (0.002)  
Volatility -0.009*** 0.011*** 0.019*** 0.038*** 0.467*** 
 (0.002) (0.001) (0.005) (0.004) (0.031) 
Leverage_t     -0.356*** 
     (0.032) 
Target’s Liquidity     -0.006 
     (0.004) 
Runup     0.442*** 
     (0.012) 
ln(deal size)     -0.068*** 
     (0.004) 
Cash/Deal     -0.014*** 
     (0.001) 
Tender Offer     -1.715*** 
     (0.017) 
Market-to-Book_t     0.000 
     (0.000) 
Analyst_a     -0.000 
     (0.001) 
Analyst_t     0.002 
     (0.001) 
Firm Size_t     0.184*** 
     (0.003) 
Profitability_a     -0.885*** 
     (0.073) 
Profitability_t     -0.254*** 
     (0.034) 

=== PAGE 56 ===
55 
 
FCF_a     -0.384*** 
     (0.031) 
FCF_t     -0.349*** 
     (0.040) 
Ln(1+credit rating)     0.019*** 
     (0.007) 
Constant 0.075*** 0.020*** 0.042*** -0.027*** 0.902*** 
 (0.005) (0.003) (0.009) (0.006) (0.005) 
Observations 135982 135982 36516 36516 2887 
Adjusted/Pseudo R2 0.036 0.042 0.033 0.043 0.289 
Year x Industry F.E. Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Window Full sample Full sample [-3,+3] [-3,+3] Full sample 
 
 
     
Panel B: Deal Premium 
 OLS OLS   
Dependent Variable: Deal premium 
(stock deals) 
Deal premium  
(cash deals) 
  
 (1) (2)   
     
Low Price 0.057 0.160   
 (0.048) (0.162)   
Low Price x Decimal -0.137*** -0.209   
 (0.051) (0.190)   
Decimal -0.339*** -0.096   
 (0.099) (0.229)   
Target’s Liquidity 0.051*** -0.024   
 (0.018) (0.054)   
Runup 0.114*** -0.163   
 (0.030) (0.151)   
Related Deal -0.040* -0.055   
 (0.023) (0.071)   
Competing Bid -0.042 0.088   
 (0.069) (0.111)   
Leverage_a  -0.042 -0.144   
 (0.065) (0.140)   
Leverage_t  0.089* 0.133   
 (0.048) (0.150)   
Tender Offer 0.034 0.083   
 (0.100) (0.051)   
ln(deal size) -0.035 -0.010   
 (0.023) (0.036)   
Market-to-Book_a  -0.016*** 0.009   
 (0.004) (0.023)   
Market-to-Book_t  -0.000 -0.000   
 (0.000) (0.000)   
Analyst_a 0.001 -0.002   
 (0.001) (0.003)   
Analyst_t 0.001 -0.000   
 (0.002) (0.004)   
Firm Size_a -0.013 0.044*   
 (0.012) (0.025)   
Firm Size_t -0.002 -0.005   
 (0.015) (0.037)   
Profitability_a -0.193* -0.419   
 (0.119) (0.429)   
Profitability_t 0.050 -0.190   
 (0.067) (0.208)   
FCF_a 0.038 0.094   
 (0.060) (0.211)   
FCF_t -0.219 -0.167   
 (0.163) (0.265)   
Constant 0.323*** 0.241   
 (0.059) (0.260)   
Observations 1536 940   
Adjusted R2 0.034 -0.011   
Year x Industry F.E. Yes Yes   
  

=== PAGE 57 ===
56 
 
Table 7: The Effect of Liquidity on Fraction of Acquisition Payment in Stock 
Panel A of this table presents coefficient estimates from Tobit regressions that examine the impact of relative liquidity on 
the fraction of deal payment in stock for the sample of deals involving  public targets. The Relative Liquidity measure used 
in each regression, indicated at the top of the column, is the difference between the acquirer’s and the target’s liquidity. 
Panel B augments the tests in Panel A by interacting Relative Liquidity with Blockholder. The full sample is divided into terciles 
based o n the number of blockholders with 5% or more stock ownership in the target in the qua rter prior to deal 
announcement. Blockholder takes a value of one for firms that fall in the highest tercile and zero for firms that fall in the 
lowest tercile. Other explanatory variables are defined in Appendix A. Constant is included in the regression but not 
reported for brevity. Year x Industry dummies are included in all regressions. Robust standard errors are clustered by Year 
x Industry and reported in parentheses. *, **, and *** indicate significance at 10%, 5%, and 1% respectively. 
Panel A 
Dependent Variable: Stockpay 
 AMH Spread 
 (1) (2) 
Relative Liquidity 0.021*** 0.017** 
 (0.003) (0.007) 
Runup 0.375*** 0.370*** 
 (0.012) (0.012) 
Volatility 0.619*** 0.601*** 
 (0.029) (0.029) 
ln(deal size) -0.087*** -0.090*** 
 (0.004) (0.004) 
Cash/Deal -0.015*** -0.014*** 
 (0.001) (0.001) 
Leverage_a -0.060* -0.060* 
 (0.031) (0.031) 
Leverage_t -0.372*** -0.354*** 
 (0.030) (0.029) 
Tangibility -0.340*** -0.336*** 
 (0.039) (0.039) 
Market-to-Book_a 0.101*** 0.103*** 
 (0.005) (0.005) 
Market-to-Book_t 0.000 0.000 
 (0.000) (0.000) 
Tender Offer -1.662*** -1.665*** 
 (0.016) (0.016) 
Analyst_a 0.001 0.001 
 (0.001) (0.001) 
Analyst_t 0.000 0.000 
 (0.001) (0.001) 
Firm Size_a -0.109*** -0.095*** 
 (0.002) (0.002) 
Firm Size_t 0.211*** 0.192*** 
 (0.003) (0.003) 
Profitability_a -0.974*** -0.970*** 
 (0.068) (0.068) 
Profitability_t -0.198*** -0.210*** 
 (0.033) (0.033) 
FCF_a -0.348*** -0.349*** 
 (0.029) (0.029) 
FCF_t -0.340*** -0.324*** 
 (0.040) (0.040) 
Ln(1+credit rating) 0.029*** 0.032*** 
 (0.007) (0.007) 
Constant 0.899*** 0.899*** 
 (0.005) (0.005) 
Observations 3032 3032 
Pseudo R2 0.283 0.282 
Year x Industry Dummies Yes Yes 
 
 

=== PAGE 58 ===
57 
 
Panel B 
Dependent Variable: Stockpay 
 AMH Spread 
 (1) (2) 
   
Relative Liquidity 0.031*** 0.031*** 
 (0.004) (0.008) 
Relative Liquidity x Blockholder -0.017*** -0.011* 
 (0.004) (0.007) 
Blockholder  -0.151*** -0.180*** 
 (0.016) (0.016) 
Runup 0.427*** 0.425*** 
 (0.012) (0.012) 
Volatility 0.532*** 0.515*** 
 (0.025) (0.025) 
ln(deal size) -0.075*** -0.075*** 
 (0.002) (0.002) 
Cash/Deal -0.014*** -0.014*** 
 (0.001) (0.001) 
Leverage_a -0.077** -0.073** 
 (0.032) (0.032) 
Leverage_t -0.436*** -0.421*** 
 (0.031) (0.030) 
Tangibility -0.190*** -0.183*** 
 (0.039) (0.038) 
Market-to-Book_a 0.128*** 0.129*** 
 (0.006) (0.006) 
Market-to-Book_t 0.000 0.000 
 (0.000) (0.000) 
Tender Offer -1.674*** -1.677*** 
 (0.016) (0.016) 
Analyst_a -0.000 -0.000 
 (0.001) (0.001) 
Analyst_t 0.002** 0.002** 
 (0.001) (0.001) 
Firm Size_a -0.122*** -0.110*** 
 (0.002) (0.002) 
Firm Size_t 0.228*** 0.211*** 
 (0.003) (0.003) 
Profitability_a -0.911*** -0.905*** 
 (0.074) (0.073) 
Profitability_t -0.149*** -0.148*** 
 (0.030) (0.031) 
FCF_a -0.611*** -0.612*** 
 (0.033) (0.033) 
FCF_t -0.206*** -0.199*** 
 (0.041) (0.041) 
Ln(1+credit rating) 0.046*** 0.049*** 
 (0.007) (0.007) 
Constant 0.912*** 0.912*** 
 (0.005) (0.005) 
Observations 2478 2478 
Pseudo R2 0.287 0.287 
Year x Industry Dummies Yes Yes 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE 59 ===
58 
 
Table 8: The Effect of Liquidity on Deal Premium 
Panel A of this table presents the coefficient estimates from OLS regressions that examine the impact of stock liquidity on 
the deal premium for the subsamples of stock and cash acquisitions involving public targets, respectively. The dependent 
variable is Deal Premium which is defined as the effective offer price as a percentage premium over the target firm’s market 
price as of two days prior to the takeover announcement. The liquidity measure used in each regression, indicated above 
the column headings, is the difference between the acquirer’s and the target’s liquidity (Relative Liquidity). Panel B augments 
the tests in Panel A by interacting Relative Liquidity with Blockholder. The full sample is divided into terciles based on the 
number of blockholders  with 5% or more stock ownership in the target in the qua rter prior to deal announcement . 
Blockholder takes a value of one for firms that fall in the highest tercile and zero for firms that fall in the lowest tercile. Other 
explanatory variables are defined in Appendix A. Year x Industry fixed effect is included in all regressions. Robust standard 
errors are clustered by Year x Industry and reported in parentheses. *, **, and *** indicate significance at 10%, 5%, and 1% 
respectively. 
Panel A 
Dependent Variable: Deal Premium 
 AMH Spread 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) 
 Stock Cash Stock Cash 
Relative Liquidity -0.021** -0.004 -0.050*** 0.026 
 (0.011) (0.026) (0.014) (0.032) 
Runup 0.122*** -0.193 0.129*** -0.177 
 (0.031) (0.133) (0.030) (0.122) 
Related Deal -0.036* -0.041 -0.035* -0.039 
 (0.021) (0.073) (0.021) (0.072) 
Competing Bid -0.051 0.074 -0.046 0.071 
 (0.084) (0.124) (0.085) (0.122) 
Leverage_a  -0.027 -0.084 -0.040 -0.078 
 (0.068) (0.133) (0.068) (0.131) 
Leverage_t  0.088* 0.172 0.087* 0.158 
 (0.054) (0.155) (0.048) (0.142) 
Tender Offer 0.053 0.066 0.043 0.071 
 (0.128) (0.056) (0.123) (0.057) 
ln(deal size) -0.027 -0.013 -0.028 -0.004 
 (0.025) (0.031) (0.026) (0.032) 
Market-to-Book_a  -0.006 0.013 -0.006 0.009 
 (0.005) (0.025) (0.005) (0.026) 
Market-to-Book_t  -0.000 -0.000 -0.000 -0.000 
 (0.000) (0.000) (0.000) (0.000) 
Analyst_a 0.001 -0.001 0.001 -0.001 
 (0.001) (0.003) (0.001) (0.003) 
Analyst_t 0.002 -0.001 0.002 -0.000 
 (0.002) (0.004) (0.002) (0.004) 
Firm Size_a 0.013 0.045 0.006 0.037 
 (0.021) (0.030) (0.014) (0.029) 
Firm Size_t -0.016 -0.018 -0.006 -0.004 
 (0.020) (0.045) (0.018) (0.036) 
Profitability_a -0.143 -0.442 -0.142 -0.466 
 (0.143) (0.428) (0.148) (0.426) 
Profitability_t 0.037 -0.159 0.026 -0.140 
 (0.069) (0.227) (0.072) (0.225) 
FCF_a 0.001 0.023 0.002 0.022 
 (0.054) (0.226) (0.057) (0.224) 
FCF_t -0.235 -0.179 -0.216 -0.189 
 (0.165) (0.270) (0.163) (0.272) 
Constant 0.303*** 0.107 0.291*** 0.043 
 (0.067) (0.232) (0.078) (0.203) 
Observations 1536 940 1536 940 
Adjusted R2 0.050 -0.002 0.048 0.001 
Year x Industry F.E. Yes Yes Yes Yes 
 
 
 

=== PAGE 60 ===
59 
 
Panel B 
Dependent Variable: Deal Premium 
 AMH Spread 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) 
 Stock Cash Stock Cash 
Relative Liquidity -0.041*** 0.001 -0.093*** 0.041 
 (0.014) (0.033) (0.026) (0.045) 
Relative Liquidity x Blockholder 0.037*** 0.021 0.101*** -0.011 
 (0.013) (0.033) (0.029) (0.050) 
Blockholder  -0.026 0.029 -0.022 0.097 
 (0.032) (0.087) (0.027) (0.086) 
Runup 0.103*** -0.126 0.105*** -0.140 
 (0.041) (0.128) (0.042) (0.128) 
Related Deal -0.046* -0.028 -0.047* -0.025 
 (0.026) (0.082) (0.026) (0.081) 
Competing Bid 0.039 0.092 0.041 0.090 
 (0.046) (0.138) (0.046) (0.135) 
Leverage_a  -0.068 -0.127 -0.082 -0.123 
 (0.056) (0.153) (0.056) (0.151) 
Leverage_t  0.108* 0.079 0.102* 0.082 
 (0.061) (0.119) (0.060) (0.118) 
Tender Offer -0.096* 0.070 -0.087 0.071 
 (0.062) (0.063) (0.060) (0.063) 
ln(deal size) -0.020 -0.014 -0.020 -0.005 
 (0.015) (0.035) (0.016) (0.035) 
Market-to-Book_a  0.000 0.020 -0.001 0.016 
 (0.006) (0.027) (0.006) (0.028) 
Market-to-Book_t  -0.001 -0.000 -0.000 -0.000 
 (0.000) (0.000) (0.000) (0.000) 
Analyst_a 0.001 -0.002 0.001 -0.002 
 (0.001) (0.004) (0.001) (0.004) 
Analyst_t 0.003* -0.002 0.003* -0.002 
 (0.002) (0.004) (0.002) (0.004) 
Firm Size_a 0.026* 0.048* 0.014 0.050* 
 (0.016) (0.031) (0.013) (0.030) 
Firm Size_t -0.040*** 0.018 -0.024* 0.011 
 (0.017) (0.040) (0.014) (0.040) 
Profitability_a -0.221 -0.685 -0.223 -0.695 
 (0.154) (0.549) (0.154) (0.560) 
Profitability_t -0.025 -0.195 -0.038 -0.176 
 (0.096) (0.252) (0.095) (0.258) 
FCF_a 0.020 0.122 0.013 0.101 
 (0.062) (0.308) (0.062) (0.282) 
FCF_t 0.023 -0.232 0.020 -0.249 
 (0.156) (0.303) (0.154) (0.301) 
Constant 0.574*** -0.178 0.526*** -0.207 
 (0.074) (0.194) (0.071) (0.201) 
Observations 1205 822 1205 822 
Adjusted R2 0.038 0.035 0.040 0.033 
Year x Industry F.E. Yes Yes Yes Yes 
  

=== PAGE 61 ===
60 
 
Table 9: Liquidity-enhancing Activity Prior to Stock Acquisitions 
This table reports estimates on the effect of future stock acquisitions on a firm’s liquidity-enhancing activities that include 
stock splits and increase s in earnings guidan ce. In Column (1) of Panel A, we estimate an OLS  regression where the 
dependent variable is a dummy that equals one if the firm’s stock is split in year t. In Column (2) of Panel A, we estimate 
an OLS regression where the dependent variable is the difference between the number of earnings guidance provided by 
the firm in year t and t–1. The sample period for the regression of Column (2) is 1994-2018. The main explanatory variable, 
Stockacq (Cashacq/Hybridacq) is a dummy variable that takes a value of one if the firm makes a stock (cash/hybrid-payment) 
acquisition in year t+1, and zero otherwise. Other explanatory variables are defined in Appendix A. In panel A, firm and 
year fixed effects are included in all regressions. Robust standard errors are clustered by firm in both panels and reported 
in parentheses. Panel B reports the IV estimation results of the regressions in Panel A with Stockacq being instrumented 
using the total number of M&A in the same industry (defined using Fama -French 48 industry) of the firm in the year 
(Number of acquisitions ). Both the first -stage and second -stage estimation results are reported. *, **, and *** indicate 
significance at 10%, 5%, and 1% respectively. 
Panel A 
Dependent Variable: Stock Split Earnings Guidance 
 (1) (2) 
Stockacq 0.019*** 0.037* 
 (0.004) (0.022) 
Cashacq -0.003 0.030 
 (0.003) (0.032) 
Hybridacq 0.003 -0.039 
 (0.009) (0.071) 
Leverage -0.022*** -0.046*** 
 (0.002) (0.015) 
Δ Leverage 0.014*** -0.001 
 (0.001) (0.013) 
Market-to-Book 0.008*** 0.011*** 
 (0.001) (0.002) 
Firm Size 0.012*** 0.009* 
 (0.001) (0.005) 
Ind_Stock_Return 0.016*** -0.024*** 
 (0.001) (0.007) 
Volatility 0.020*** 0.003 
 (0.002) (0.013) 
Constant -0.030* 0.033 
 (0.017) (0.031) 
Observations 142053 125452 
Adjusted/ Pseudo R2 0.025 0.064 
Firm & Year F.E. Yes Yes 
 
  

=== PAGE 62 ===
61 
 
Panel B 
 1st stage 2nd stage 1st stage 2nd stage 
Dependent Variable: Stockacq Stock Split Stockacq Earnings Guidance 
 (1) (2)  (3) 
Number of acquisitions 0.001***  0.001***  
 (0.000)  (0.000)  
Instrumented Stockacq  0.172***  0.371*** 
  (0.033)  (0.113) 
Leverage -0.010*** -0.022*** -0.011*** -0.045*** 
 (0.002) (0.001) (0.002) (0.007) 
Δ Leverage -0.002 0.015*** -0.002 -0.007 
 (0.002) (0.001) (0.002) (0.010) 
Market-to-Book 0.003*** 0.005*** 0.003*** 0.008*** 
 (0.000) (0.000) (0.000) (0.001) 
Firm Size 0.007*** 0.008*** 0.007*** 0.006*** 
 (0.001) (0.000) (0.001) (0.001) 
Ind_Stock_Return 0.012*** 0.019*** 0.012*** -0.018*** 
 (0.001) (0.001) (0.001) (0.006) 
Volatility 0.008*** 0.004*** 0.009*** -0.013** 
 (0.001) (0.001) (0.002) (0.006) 
Constant -0.022*** 0.007 0.007* -0.009 
 (0.009) (0.015) (0.004) (0.008) 
Observations 142053 125452 
Year F.E. Yes Yes 
Kleibergen-Paap Wald rk F 
statistic 
382.66 357.98 
Kleibergen-Paap rk LM 
statistic 
351.98 330.03 
 
  

=== PAGE 63 ===
62 
 
Table 10: Stock Liquidity and Acquirer’s Announcement Returns  
Panel A (Panel B) of this table presents coefficient estimates from OLS regressions that examine the effect of stock liquidity 
on the acquirer’s  (acquirer-target combined)  three-day [ -1, 1] cumulative abnormal returns (CARs) around the 
announcements of stock acquisition (columns 1-2) and cash acquisition (columns 3-4) involving public targets. The liquidity 
measure used in each regression, indicated at the top of the columns, is the difference between the acquirer’s and the 
target’s liquidity (Relative Liquidity). Panel C augment the tests in Panel A  (restricted to stock acquisitions)  by interacting 
Relative Liquidity with Blockholder. The full sample is divided into terciles based on the number of blockholders with 5% or 
more stock ownership in the target in the quarter prior t o deal announcement . Blockholder takes a value of one for firms 
that fall in the highest tercile and zero for firms that fall in th e lowest tercile. Other explanatory variables are defined in 
Appendix A. Year x Industry fixed effect is  included in all regressions. Robust standard errors are clustered by Year x 
Industry and reported in parentheses. *, **, and *** indicate significance at 10%, 5%, and 1% respectively. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Panel A 
Dependent Variable: CAR (Acquirer) 
 AMH Spread AMH Spread 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) 
 Stock Deals Cash Deals 
Relative Liquidity 0.004** 0.005* -0.001 -0.003 
 (0.002) (0.003) (0.004) (0.006) 
Runup -0.040*** -0.041*** -0.048 -0.048 
 (0.009) (0.009) (0.033) (0.032) 
Tender Offer 0.025 0.026 -0.002 -0.002 
 (0.021) (0.021) (0.010) (0.010) 
Competing Bid 0.020* 0.019* -0.012 -0.012 
 (0.011) (0.011) (0.015) (0.015) 
Related Deal -0.002 -0.002 0.018* 0.018* 
 (0.005) (0.005) (0.010) (0.010) 
Volatility -0.015 -0.018 0.017 0.017 
 (0.016) (0.016) (0.036) (0.035) 
Market-to-Book_a -0.005*** -0.004*** -0.009* -0.009* 
 (0.001) (0.001) (0.005) (0.005) 
Leverage_a 0.002 0.003 0.005 0.004 
 (0.013) (0.013) (0.026) (0.025) 
Market-to-Book_t 0.000** 0.000** 0.000 0.000 
 (0.000) (0.000) (0.000) (0.000) 
Leverage_t 0.004 0.005 0.002 0.002 
 (0.011) (0.011) (0.019) (0.020) 
Analyst_a -0.000 -0.000 0.000 0.000 
 (0.000) (0.000) (0.001) (0.001) 
Analyst_t 0.000 0.000 -0.001 -0.001 
 (0.000) (0.000) (0.001) (0.001) 
Firm Size_a 0.001 0.003 -0.002 -0.002 
 (0.003) (0.003) (0.006) (0.006) 
Firm Size_t -0.003 -0.006** -0.001 -0.001 
 (0.003) (0.003) (0.008) (0.006) 
Profitability_a 0.013 0.010 0.093 0.092 
 (0.031) (0.031) (0.098) (0.098) 
Profitability_t -0.005 -0.005 0.010 0.009 
 (0.019) (0.019) (0.033) (0.033) 
FCF_a 0.018 0.019 0.011 0.011 
 (0.014) (0.014) (0.079) (0.079) 
FCF_t -0.014 -0.012 -0.004 -0.005 
 (0.032) (0.032) (0.042) (0.042) 
Constant -0.018 -0.012 0.025 0.025 
 (0.020) (0.020) (0.051) (0.047) 
Observations 1617 1617 948 948 
Adjusted R2 0.196 0.194 0.149 0.149 
Year x Industry F.E. Yes Yes Yes Yes 

=== PAGE 64 ===
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Panel B 
Dependent Variable: Combined CAR 
 AMH Spread AMH Spread 
 (1) (2) (3) (4) 
 Stock Deals Cash Deals 
Relative Liquidity 0.029*** 0.042*** 0.012 0.032 
 (0.009) (0.013) (0.012) (0.023) 
Runup 0.034 0.022 -0.098 -0.102 
 (0.030) (0.031) (0.081) (0.081) 
Tender Offer 0.130 0.138 0.065 0.065 
 (0.090) (0.098) (0.043) (0.042) 
Competing Bid 0.005 -0.000 -0.105 -0.104 
 (0.053) (0.055) (0.064) (0.064) 
Related Deal -0.002 -0.005 0.011 0.013 
 (0.027) (0.029) (0.041) (0.041) 
Volatility -0.044 -0.066 0.067 0.068 
 (0.051) (0.048) (0.118) (0.117) 
Market-to-Book_a -0.009 -0.008 -0.001 -0.005 
 (0.009) (0.008) (0.017) (0.018) 
Leverage_a -0.073 -0.070 0.015 0.022 
 (0.052) (0.055) (0.088) (0.088) 
Market-to-Book_t 0.000 0.000 -0.000 -0.000 
 (0.000) (0.000) (0.000) (0.000) 
Leverage_t 0.012 0.030 0.030 0.029 
 (0.051) (0.051) (0.078) (0.079) 
Analyst_a 0.001 0.001 -0.003 -0.003 
 (0.001) (0.001) (0.002) (0.002) 
Analyst_t 0.000 0.000 -0.001 -0.001 
 (0.002) (0.002) (0.003) (0.003) 
Firm Size_a -0.013 0.001 0.049** 0.050*** 
 (0.016) (0.014) (0.019) (0.019) 
Firm Size_t 0.007 -0.013 -0.030 -0.032* 
 (0.018) (0.014) (0.021) (0.018) 
Profitability_a 0.045 0.029 -0.075 -0.062 
 (0.129) (0.124) (0.270) (0.273) 
Profitability_t 0.096 0.103 -0.139 -0.129 
 (0.071) (0.073) (0.167) (0.166) 
FCF_a 0.023 0.023 -0.132 -0.131 
 (0.071) (0.071) (0.201) (0.203) 
FCF_t -0.207 -0.197 0.044 0.052 
 (0.161) (0.163) (0.227) (0.230) 
Constant 0.160** 0.215*** 0.051 0.050 
 (0.081) (0.079) (0.166) (0.163) 
Observations 1063 1063 836 836 
Adjusted R2 0.066 0.050 0.127 0.132 
Year x Industry F.E. Yes Yes Yes Yes 

=== PAGE 65 ===
64 
 
 
 
 
Panel C 
Dependent Variable: CAR 
 AMH Spread 
 (1) (2) 
Relative Liquidity 0.005** 0.007** 
 (0.002) (0.003) 
Relative Liquidity x Blockholder -0.005*** -0.009*** 
 (0.002) (0.003) 
Blockholder  0.011 0.007 
 (0.008) (0.006) 
Runup -0.035*** -0.035*** 
 (0.009) (0.009) 
Tender Offer 0.020 0.019 
 (0.016) (0.016) 
Competing Bid -0.000 -0.001 
 (0.012) (0.012) 
Related Deal 0.002 0.002 
 (0.007) (0.007) 
Volatility -0.033** -0.035*** 
 (0.012) (0.013) 
Market-to-Book_a -0.004* -0.004* 
 (0.002) (0.002) 
Leverage_a 0.023* 0.024* 
 (0.014) (0.014) 
Market-to-Book_t 0.000*** 0.000*** 
 (0.000) (0.000) 
Leverage_t -0.001 -0.000 
 (0.008) (0.008) 
Analyst_a 0.000 0.000 
 (0.000) (0.000) 
Analyst_t -0.000 -0.000 
 (0.000) (0.000) 
Firm Size_a -0.002 0.000 
 (0.003) (0.002) 
Firm Size_t -0.000 -0.003 
 (0.003) (0.003) 
Profitability_a -0.021 -0.022 
 (0.050) (0.050) 
Profitability_t -0.007 -0.006 
 (0.030) (0.030) 
FCF_a 0.024* 0.024* 
 (0.012) (0.012) 
FCF_t -0.034 -0.033 
 (0.047) (0.047) 
Constant -0.019 -0.010 
 (0.015) (0.016) 
Observations 1267 1267 
Adjusted R2 0.111 0.108 
Year x Industry F.E. Yes Yes 