Governance Through Trading and
Intervention: A Theory of Multiple
Blockholders




                                                                                                                 Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
Alex Edmans
Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania

Gustavo Manso
MIT Sloan School of Management


    Traditional theories argue that governance is strongest under a single large blockholder, as
    she has high incentives to undertake value-enhancing interventions. However, most firms
    are held by multiple small blockholders. This article shows that, while such a structure
    generates free-rider problems that hinder intervention, the same coordination difficulties
    strengthen a second governance mechanism: disciplining the manager through trading.
    Since multiple blockholders cannot coordinate to limit their orders and maximize com-
    bined trading profits, they trade competitively, impounding more information into prices.
    This strengthens the threat of disciplinary trading, inducing higher managerial effort. The
    optimal blockholder structure depends on the relative effectiveness of manager and block-
    holder effort, the complementarities in their outputs, information asymmetry, liquidity,
    monitoring costs, and the manager’s contract. (JEL D82, G14, G32)



Corporate governance can have significant effects on firm value. Through en-
suring that managers act in shareholders’ interest, it reduces the agency costs
arising from the separation of ownership and control. In turn, traditional the-
ories argue that concentrated ownership is critical for effective governance,
since only large investors have incentives to monitor the manager and, if nec-
essary, intervene to correct value-destructive actions.



We thank an anonymous referee, the Editor (Paolo Fulghieri), Anat Admati, Itay Goldstein, Jay Hartzell, Robert
Hauswald, Uli Hege, Cliff Holderness, Rich Mathews, Holger Mueller, Stew Myers, Tom Noe, Jun Qian, Charu
Raheja, Rafael Repullo, Avanidhar Subrahmanyam, Alex Wagner, Jiang Wang, Yongxiang Wang, and seminar
participants at the 2009 FIRS meetings, 2009 AFA meetings, 2008 EFA meetings, 2008 Texas Finance Festival,
2008 China International Conference in Finance, 2008 European Winter Finance Conference, 2007 Confer-
ence on Financial Economics and Accounting at NYU, Amsterdam, Columbia, Drexel, HKUST, Maastricht,
MIT, Notre Dame, Securities and Exchange Commission, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Yale,
and Wharton for helpful comments, and Qi Liu and Chong Huang for excellent research assistance. Edmans
gratefully acknowledges the Goldman Sachs Research Fellowship from the Rodney White Center for Finan-
cial Research. This article was previously circulated under the title “Governance Through Exit and Voice: A
Theory of Multiple Blockholders.” Send correspondence to Alex Edmans, 3620 Locust Walk, Philadelphia, PA
19104; telephone: (215) 746-0498. E-mail: aedmans@wharton.upenn.edu. Gustavo Manso, 100 Main Street,
Cambridge, MA 02142; telephone: (617) 253-7218. E-mail: manso@mit.edu.

 c The Author 2010. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Society for Financial Studies.
All rights reserved. For Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.
doi:10.1093/rfs/hhq145                                          Advance Access publication December 14, 2010
  The Review of Financial Studies / v 24 n 7 2011



     However, many firms in reality have multiple small blockholders (Faccio
  and Lang 2002; Maury and Pajuste 2005; Laeven and Levine 2007; Holderness
  2009). Such a structure appears to be suboptimal for governance, as splitting
  equity between numerous shareholders leads to a free-rider problem: Each in-
  vestor individually has insufficient incentives to bear the cost of monitoring.
  Should policymakers encourage more concentrated stakes, as suggested by ex-
  isting models, or can such a structure in fact be efficient? The evidence also




                                                                                                                 Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
  demonstrates heterogeneity in blockholder structures. What causes the number
  of blockholders to vary across firms?
     These questions are the focus of this article. We demonstrate that a multiple
  blockholder structure can be efficient, and identify the factors that determine
  the optimal blockholder structure. While splitting a block reduces the effec-
  tiveness of direct intervention, it increases the power of a second governance
  mechanism: trading. By trading on private information, blockholders move the
  stock price toward fundamental value, and thus cause it to more closely reflect
  the effort exerted by the manager to enhance firm value. If the manager shirks
  or extracts private benefits, blockholders follow the “Wall Street Rule” of “vot-
  ing with their feet” and selling to liquidity traders. This drives down the stock
  price, reducing the manager’s equity compensation and thus punishing him ex
  post. However, such a mechanism elicits effort ex ante only if it is dynami-
  cally consistent. Once the manager has taken his action, blockholders cannot
  change it and are concerned only with maximizing their trading profits. A sin-
  gle blockholder will strategically limit her order to reduce the revelation of her
  private information. By contrast, multiple blockholders trade aggressively to
  compete for profits, as in a Cournot oligopoly. Total quantities (here, trading
  volumes) are higher than under monopoly, so more information is impounded
  in prices and they more closely reflect fundamental value and thus the man-
  ager’s effort.1 Multiple blockholders therefore serve as a commitment device
  to reward or punish the manager ex post for his actions.
     We derive an interior solution for the optimal number of blockholders that
  maximizes firm value. This optimum arises from a tradeoff between interven-
  tion and trading: Fewer blocks maximize intervention, but more blocks in-
  crease trading. Therefore, this optimum is increasing in the value created by
  managerial effort and decreasing in the value created by blockholder interven-
  tion. If blockholders are passive, such as mutual funds, they are more effective
  at governing through trading than intervention, and so a large number is opti-
  mal. By contrast, with activists and venture capitalists, concentrated ownership
  is efficient. We show that the firm value optimum may differ from the social
  optimum that maximizes total surplus (firm value net of effort costs), and the
  private optimum that would be endogenously chosen by the blockholders if


1 The 2007 hedge fund crisis is a prominent example of the substantial price changes that result from multiple
  investors trading in the same direction.




  2396
Governance Through Trading and Intervention: A Theory of Multiple Blockholders



they retraded their stakes to maximize their combined net payoffs (which in-
clude informed trading profits). However, the above comparative statics are the
same for all three optima.
   In the core model, blockholders are automatically informed about firm value.
We extend the model to costly information acquisition. In equilibrium some
blockholders may stay uninformed, because trading profits are insufficient to
justify information gathering. Since uninformed blockholders do not trade, and




                                                                                        Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
reduce intervention by diluting ownership, they lower firm value. Thus, the
optimal number of blockholders is bounded above, to ensure that competition
in trading is sufficiently low that trading profits are adequate to motivate all
blockholders to acquire information. If net trading profits increase, this bound
is loosened and so the number of blockholders rises. This in turn occurs if mar-
ket liquidity and the blockholders’ informational advantage increase, and the
cost of information falls.
   The core model assumes that blockholder and manager efforts are substi-
tutes, with independent effects on firm value. For example, the firm value im-
pact of managerial effort to launch new products is unaffected by the extent
to which blockholders extract private benefits or monitor managerial perks.
However, in some cases there may be positive complementarities, where the
marginal productivity of one party’s effort is increasing in the other party’s
effort—for example, the blockholder formulates a strategy that the manager
implements. We model positive complementarities by specifying that firm value
depends only on the lower of the manager’s and blockholders’ output lev-
els (where “output” is effort scaled by productivity). Since managerial ef-
fort is productive only if it is accompanied by high blockholder effort (and
vice versa), the optimal number of blockholders balances the output levels of
both parties. The effect of effort productivity changes direction: The optimum
is now decreasing (increasing) in the effectiveness of the manager’s (block-
holders’) effort. If blockholder effort is ineffective, concentrated ownership is
necessary to “boost” blockholder output so that it is at a similar level to the
manager’s output.
   The opposite case is negative complementarities, where the marginal pro-
ductivity of one party’s effort is decreasing in the other party’s output. This
occurs if blockholders correct managerial shirking: Blockholders are most ef-
fective if the manager exerts low effort or consumes private benefits. We model
negative complementarities by specifying that firm value depends only on the
higher of the output levels of the two parties. The optimum is determined en-
tirely by the more effective action, and ignores tradeoff considerations with the
less effective action. The efficient number of blockholders is either very low
(if blockholder effort is relatively effective) or very high (if managerial effort
is relatively effective).
   Finally, the optimal number of blockholders is also increasing in the man-
ager’s and blockholders’ relative weighting on the stock price rather than long-
run fundamental value (e.g., as a result of short vesting periods or liquidity



                                                                                 2397
  The Review of Financial Studies / v 24 n 7 2011



  needs), since this augments the importance of stock price informativeness for
  their effort choices.
     We close by discussing empirical implications, which fall under two broad
  themes. First, the model suggests a different way of thinking about the in-
  teraction between multiple blockholders, which can give rise to new avenues
  for empirical research. Prior models perceive blockholders as competing for
  private benefits, and so existing empirical studies of multiple blockholders




                                                                                                             Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
  typically focus on rent extraction (e.g., Laeven and Levine 2007). Our article
  suggests that future research may be motivated by conceptualizing them as in-
  formed traders, competing for trading profits. This link between blockholders
  and the microstructure literature generates a new set of predictions relating to
  informed trading and financial markets. The model predicts that blockholder
  structure impacts price efficiency and consequently firm value, and their power
  in exerting governance depends on microstructure factors such as liquidity and
  the blockholders’ information advantage. One recent example of such a re-
  search direction is Gallagher, Gardner, and Swan (2010), who show that an
  increase in the number of blockholders reduces trading profits, augments price
  efficiency, and leads to subsequent improvements in firm performance. Gorton,
  Huang, and Kang (2010) find that price informativeness is increasing in the
  number of blockholders; Boehmer and Kelley (2009) document that it is ris-
  ing in ownership dispersion. Bharath, Jayaraman, and Nagar (2010) find that
  liquidity improves firm value particularly in firms with multiple blockhold-
  ers, and Smith and Swan (2008) show that trading by multiple blockholders
  disciplines managerial compensation. More generally, these implications con-
  tribute to the broader literature linking financial markets to corporate finance
  and demonstrating the real effects of financial markets.2
     Second, the theory implies that the number of blockholders is important
  as both a dependent and an independent variable in empirical studies. Ex-
  isting research often focuses on explaining total institutional ownership or
  the size of the largest blockholder. This article suggests that the number of
  blockholders is another important feature of governance structures. As a de-
  pendent variable, the model generates testable predictions for the factors that
  should cause blockholder structure to vary across firms, potentially explain-
  ing the heterogeneity observed empirically. As an independent variable, the
  number of blockholders is a driver of both market efficiency and the strength
  of corporate governance. Empirical papers frequently use total institutional
  ownership as a gauge of price efficiency, since institutions are typically more
  informed than retail investors. However, market efficiency requires not only
  that investors be informed, but also that they impound their information into
  prices, and so the number of informed shareholders is a relevant additional

2 See, for example, Fishman and Hagerty (1989); Holmstrom and Tirole (1993); Dow and Gorton (1997);
  Subrahmanyam and Titman (1999); Fulghieri and Lukin (2001); Chen, Goldstein, and Jiang (2007); Goldstein
  and Guembel (2008); Calcagno and Heider (2008); and Ferreira, Ferreira, and Raposo 2010.




  2398
   Governance Through Trading and Intervention: A Theory of Multiple Blockholders



   factor. Similarly, governance is typically proxied for using total institutional
   ownership, or the holding of the largest shareholder, but the number of block-
   holders is also important. See Bharath, Jayaraman, and Nagar (2010) and
   Gorton, Huang, and Kang (2010) for recent empirical studies of the effect of
   blockholder numbers.
      This article is organized as follows. Section 1 reviews related literature. Sec-
   tion 2 presents the model and analyzes the effect of blockholder structure on




                                                                                           Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
   both intervention and trading. Section 3 derives the optimal number of block-
   holders that maximizes firm value, total surplus, and the blockholders’ payoff.
   Section 4 considers extensions, Section 5 discusses empirical implications, and
   Section 6 concludes. The Appendix contains all proofs not in the main text,
   some extensions, and other peripheral material.3


1. Related Literature
   The vast majority of blockholder models involve the large shareholder adding
   value through direct intervention, or “voice” as termed by Hirschman (1970).
   This can involve implementing profitable projects or correcting managerial
   inefficiency. In Shleifer and Vishny (1986); Admati, Pfleiderer, and Zechner
   (1994); Maug (1998, 2002); Kahn and Winton (1998); and Mello and Repullo
   (2004), a larger block is unambiguously more desirable as it reduces the free-
   rider problem and maximizes incentives to intervene.
      By contrast, Burkart, Gromb, and Panunzi (1997) show that the optimal
   block size is finite if blockholder intervention can deter managerial initiative ex
   ante. Bolton and von Thadden (1998) and Faure-Grimaud and Gromb (2004)
   achieve a finite optimum through a different channel, as too large a block re-
   duces free float. While these papers consider only a single shareholder, Pagano
   and Röell (1998) point out that if the finite optimum is lower than the total
   external financing required, the entrepreneur will need to raise funds from ad-
   ditional shareholders. Although this leads to a multiple blockholder structure,
   the extra blockholders play an entirely passive role: They are merely a “budget-
   breaker” to provide the remaining funds. Replacing the additional blockholders
   by creditors or dispersed shareholders would have the same effect. In this ar-
   ticle, all blockholders play an active role. In Winton (1993), a multiple block-
   holder structure arises as investors face wealth constraints, rather than from
   price efficiency considerations.
      Two recent papers by Admati and Pfleiderer (2009) and Edmans (2009)
   analyze an alternative governance mechanism: trading (also commonly re-
   ferred to as “exit”). Informed trading causes prices to more accurately re-
   flect fundamental value, in turn inducing the manager to undertake actions that



 3 All appendices are available online at http://www.sfsrfs.org.




                                                                                    2399
  The Review of Financial Studies / v 24 n 7 2011



  enhance value.4 The survey evidence of McCahery, Sautner, and Starks (2010)
  finds that trading is the primary governance mechanism used by institutions;
  Parrino, Sias, and Starks (2003) and Chen, Harford, and Li (2007) docu-
  ment direct evidence of governance through trading. However, Admati and
  Pfleiderer (2009) and Edmans (2009) both consider a single blockholder and
  do not feature intervention.
     Attari, Banerjee, and Noe (2006), Faure-Grimaud and Gromb (2004), and




                                                                                                                         Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
  Aghion, Bolton, and Tirole (2004) feature a blockholder who can only inter-
  vene and a speculative agent who can only trade. The blockholder does not
  trade; even though the speculator does, such trading does not exert gover-
  nance as there is no managerial decision. These theories thus consider inter-
  vention only. Noe (2002) features multiple blockholders who both intervene
  and trade. Since stock price informativeness has no effect on managerial ef-
  fort, blockholder trading again does not exert governance.5 In Khanna and
  Mathews (2010), blockholder trading does improve firm value, but through the
  different channel of countering manipulation by a short-seller. In our model,
  all blockholders engage in both intervention and trading; the latter affects the
  manager’s incentives and thus exerts governance. Indeed, McCahery et al. find
  that institutional blockholders use both governance mechanisms frequently.6
  To our knowledge, this article is the first theory that analyzes both of these
  major governance mechanisms and the tradeoffs between them.
     Most existing multiple blockholder theories focus on the formation of coali-
  tions to win voting contests (Dhillon and Rossetto 2009) or extract private ben-
  efits (Zwiebel 1995; Bennedsen and Wolfenzon 2000; Mueller and Wärneryd
  2001; Bloch and Hege 2003; Maury and Pajuste 2005; Gomes and Novaes
  2006).7 This article derives a multiple blockholder structure through a quite
  different channel—its effect on governance through trading, rather than con-
  trol contests. By studying different blockholder actions, the model generates


4 In Holmstrom and Tirole (1993), Calcagno and Heider (2008), and Ferreira, Ferreira, and Raposo (2010), price
  efficiency is also desirable as it helps monitor management. In Fulghieri and Lukin (2001), efficient prices
  reduce the cost of raising funds for a high-quality firm. In Fishman and Hagerty (1989), efficient prices improve
  the manager’s investment decisions. These papers do not analyze the effect of blockholder structure on price
  efficiency, and there is no blockholder intervention. In Fulghieri and Lukin (2001), price efficiency is enhanced
  via security design; in Fishman and Hagerty (1989), it is enhanced by firms’ voluntary disclosures.
5 Similarly, the single blockholder models of Maug (1998, 2002), Kahn and Winton (1998), Mello and Repullo
  (2004), Brav and Mathews (2010), and Kalay and Pant (2010) allow the blockholder either to intervene or to sell
  her stake (in the last two papers, the intervention occurs through voting). However, trading again does not exert
  governance, and so these papers are theories of intervention only.
6 While trading is the primary mechanism (undertaken by 80% of institutions), 66% vote against management
  and 55% engage in discussions with the board. Six other channels of intervention are used by at least 10%
  of respondents. Institutions can both trade freely on information and engage in intervention because the above
  intervention mechanisms do not require them to have a board seat and become a firm insider.
7 Another explanation is that regulation (e.g., Section 13(d) filing requirements upon acquisition of a 5% stake,
  or becoming classified as an insider upon acquisition of a 10% stake) prevents investors from building large
  blocks and thus forces firms to be held by multiple blockholders. Existing theories advocating a single large
  blockholder would suggest that such institutional constraints lead to inefficient ownership structures; this article
  reaches a different conclusion.




  2400
  Governance Through Trading and Intervention: A Theory of Multiple Blockholders


  Table 1
  Frequency of multiple blockholders for 1,240 U.S. firms. This table reports the frequency of blockholder
  structures for U.S. firms in 2001 using data from Dlugosz et al. (2006)

                           All blockholders                                  Outside blockholders
             Number of firms              % of firms with           Number of firms            % of firms with
  N         with N blockholders          ≥ N blockholders          with N blockholders        ≥ N blockholders
  0                 152                        100%                       249                       100%
  1                 217                         88%                       289                        80%




                                                                                                                   Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
  2                 287                         70%                       284                        57%
  3                 264                         47%                       213                        34%
  4                 170                         26%                       116                        17%
  5                  88                         12%                        62                         7%
  6                  40                          5%                        18                         2%
  7                  17                          2%                         7                         1%
  8                   4                          0%                         2                         0%
  9                   1                          0%                         0                         0%



  a new range of empirical predictions, in particular those relating to informed
  trading and financial markets, and more broadly links together the previously
  disparate literatures on blockholders and microstructure.
     We now turn from related theories to the empirical facts that motivate our
  model. Table 1 illustrates the prevalence of multiple blockholders using U.S.
  data for 2001 from Dlugosz et al. (2006). They define a blockholder as a share-
  holder with at least 5% of a firm’s equity. The table illustrates that 70% of
  firms have multiple blockholders, and 26% of firms have at least four block-
  holders. Focusing on outside blockholders, these figures remain sizable at 57%
  and 17%. Hence, not only do most firms have multiple blockholders, but even
  among such firms, the number of blockholders varies. Therefore, we seek not
  only to show that a multiple blockholder structure can be optimal, but also to
  explain why blockholder numbers vary across firms. Hand-collected data from
  Holderness (2009) give consistent results, showing that 74% of firms have mul-
  tiple blockholders and 26% have at least four blockholders.8
     Turning to overseas, Laeven and Levine (2007) find that 34% of European
  firms have more than one blockholder; Maury and Pajuste (2005) document a
  figure of 48% for Finnish firms. Using Western European data made available
  by Faccio and Lang (2002), we find a similar ratio of 39%. All these figures
  are sizable but somewhat lower than the U.S. data, because the above papers
  require an investor to have at least 10% of the voting rights to be a blockholder,
  in part motivated by existing theories based on control contests. While a 10%
  stake may be necessary to exert control, in our model a blockholder is simply
  a shareholder who has greater information than the market, and so the lower
  threshold of Dlugosz et al. (2006) is more appropriate. Even a stake below 5%
  may be sufficient to gain access to management or give incentives to analyze



8 The Holderness (2009) paper does not contain the frequency of multiple blockholders. We thank Cliff Holderness
  for providing us with these figures using his underlying data.




                                                                                                         2401
   The Review of Financial Studies / v 24 n 7 2011




                                                                                                                         Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
   Figure 1
   Timeline of the model




   the firm in detail (for example, mutual funds typically hold under 5%). Under a
   lower threshold, the prevalence of multiple blockholders and heterogeneity in
   structures will be even greater. Our model does not assume that blockholders
   have control rights; a blockholder is simply any party with a sufficient stake to
   induce intervention, who also has private information and the ability to trade
   on this information.9 It thus can apply to shareholders with less than 5% and
   suggests that empirical studies of blockholders may wish to use data sources
   other than 13d filings to identify sizable shareholders below the 5% threshold
   (e.g., Gallagher, Gardner, and Swan 2010).


2. Model and Analysis
   Our model consists of a game between the manager, a market maker, and the
   I blockholders of the firm. The game has two stages, and the timeline is given
   in Figure 1.
      In the first stage, the manager and blockholders take actions that affect firm
   value. Firm value is given by
                                                      P 
                      ṽ = φa log (1 + a) + φb log 1 + i bi + η e,                (1)

   where a ∈ [0, ∞) represents the action taken by the manager, bi ∈ [0, ∞) rep-
   resents the action taken by blockholder i, and η̃ is normally distributed noise
   with mean zero and variance ση2 . The manager incurs personal cost a when
   taking action a, while each blockholder i incurs personal cost bi when taking



 9 For U.S. firms, insiders will typically not meet this definition of a blockholder since they are prohibited from
   trading on material non-public information by insider trading laws; Table 1 therefore differentiates between
   inside and outside blockholders. In countries where insider trading laws are weak or not enforced, and insiders
   do not face other trading restrictions such as wealth constraints or risk aversion, both insiders and outsiders can
   be considered blockholders in the model.




   2402
   Governance Through Trading and Intervention: A Theory of Multiple Blockholders



   action bi .10 The manager’s action is broadly defined to encompass any decision
   that improves firm value but is personally costly, such as exerting effort or for-
   going private benefits. We call these actions “initiative” and “managerial rent
   extraction,” respectively. Similarly, the blockholder’s action can involve advis-
   ing the manager (“advising”), inhibiting managerial perks (“perk prevention”),
   or extracting private benefits for themselves (“blockholder rent extraction”).11
   Section 5 discusses which types of action will likely be most important in a




                                                                                                                          Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
   given setting. The parameter φa (φb ) measures the productivity of manager
   (blockholder) effort. We use the term “effort”P to refer to a and bi and “output”
   to refer to φa log(1 + a) and φb log(1 + i bi ), i.e., effort scaled by its pro-
   ductivity. To avoid having to deal with the boundary cases where a and/or bi
   are zero and explicitly analyze non-negativity constraints, we impose techni-
   cal restrictions on the parameters to guarantee that both are strictly positive.
   Sufficient conditions are given in Appendix A.12
      In the core model, the manager’s and blockholders’ actions are perfect sub-
   stitutes, with independent effects on firm value. This benchmark case is appro-
   priate in a number of settings. For example, if blockholders impact the firm
   primarily through rent extraction, this erodes firm value regardless of the man-
   ager’s initiative or rent extraction. If the key managerial action is initiative
   (e.g., designing new products or building client relationships) and blockhold-
   ers mainly block perks or consume private benefits themselves, these are also
   independent. However, in some situations, there may be positive or negative
   complementarities between the manager’s and blockholders’ actions. These
   are analyzed in Section 4.2.
      Action a is privately observed by the manager, as in any moral hazard prob-
   lem. In the core model, we assume that bi is public. This assumption is made
   only for tractability, since it allows the trading and effort decisions to be solved
   separately. The key mechanism through which the article justifies multiple
   blockholders, that a rise in I generates competition in trading, is unaffected
   by whether bi is observable. In Section 4.4, we allow for bi to be private.
      There is one share outstanding. The risk-neutral manager owns α shares, and
   each risk-neutral blockholder holds β/I shares, where α +β < 1. Our analysis
   focuses exclusively on the optimal number of blockholders (I ) among which a

10 Firm value depends on the logarithm of the combined blockholder effort level, and the action has a linear
   cost to each blockholder. This functional form ensures that adding blockholders does not change the available
   technology (in addition, it leads to substantial tractability). The common assumption of a quadratic cost and a
   linear effect of bi on ṽ is inappropriate here: With a convex cost function, the blockholders’ technology would
   improve if there are multiple small blockholders, since each would be operating at the low marginal cost part of
   the curve. A single blockholder would be able to reduce monitoring costs by dividing herself up into multiple
   small “units,” and increase total effort. Instead, the linear cost means that the monitoring technology is constant,
   and so there is no mechanical reduction in monitoring costs from splitting a block.
11 See Barclay and Holderness (1989) for a description of the private benefits that blockholders can extract. Unlike
   in earlier theories of multiple blockholders, here blockholders do not compete (with either each other or the
   manager) to consume private benefits.
12 The analysis of perfect negative complementarities (Proposition 10) does allow for a or P b to be zero, and
                                                                                             i i
   indeed shows that the optimum involves one of these terms being zero.




                                                                                                               2403
   The Review of Financial Studies / v 24 n 7 2011



   given level of concentrated ownership is divided, and thus holds the amount of
   concentrated ownership (β) constant. This separates our article from previous
   literature that analyzes the optimal β. For example, Shleifer and Vishny (1986)
   and Maug (1998, 2002) show that a higher β raises incentives to intervene, but
   this must be traded off against the potential reduction in managerial initiative
   (Burkart, Gromb, and Panunzi 1997) and free float (Bolton and von Thadden
   1998). In this model, free float is fixed at 1 − α − β and plays no role. Endo-




                                                                                                                         Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
   genizing β and allowing liquidity (introduced shortly) to depend on free float
   will lead to the same tradeoff as these earlier papers.13
      In the second stage of the game, the blockholders, noise traders, and a
   market maker trade the firm’s equity. As in Admati and Pfleiderer (2009),
   each blockholder observes firm value ṽ perfectly, while noise traders are unin-
   formed. Section 4.1 extends the model to costly information acquisition, and
   Appendix B shows that our results are unchanged if each blockholder obtains
   an imperfect signal of ṽ: We require only that blockholders have superior in-
   formation to atomistic investors.14 This superior information can be motivated
   by a number of underlying assumptions. Blockholders’ large stakes may give
   them greater access to information: Given their voting power, management
   is more willing to meet with them. In reality, managers meet large institu-
   tional investors but not households. Even if blockholders have the same access
   to information as other investors, they have stronger incentives to engage in
   costly analysis of this information. For example, mutual funds undertake de-
   tailed analysis of public information to form their own valuations. Edmans
   (2009) microfounds this relationship between block size and informedness.
   If there are short-sale constraints (or nontrivial short-sale costs), blockhold-
   ers can sell more if information turns out to be negative. Since information
   is more useful to them, they have a greater incentive to acquire it in the first
   place. Several empirical studies indeed find that blockholders are better in-
   formed than other investors and impound their information into prices through
   trading. Parrino, Sias, and Starks (2003) and Chen, Harford, and Li (2007)
   find that blockholders have superior information about negative firm prospects,
   which they use to vote with their feet. Bushee and Goodman (2007) show that
   blockholders trade on private rather than public information. Holthausen, Left-
   wich, and Mayers (1990) and Sias, Starks, and Titman (2006) demonstrate that
   such blockholder trading has a permanent effect on stock prices (suggesting
   the price moves are due to information rather than liquidity), and Brockman


13 We could also extend the model by introducing managerial risk aversion and endogenizing α . Then, the increased
   price efficiency that results from a greater number of blockholders will lead to the optimal contract involving a
   greater relative weight on equity compensation versus other performance measures: See Holmstrom and Tirole
   (1993) and Calcagno and Heider (2008). As in the present article, managerial effort unambiguously rises (see
   Chen and Swan 2010).
14 Appendix C allows signal precision to be increasing in the blockholder’s individual stake and thus fall with I .
   This does not change any results as long as signal precision does not decline so rapidly with I that this outweighs
   the beneficial effect of greater I on competition in trading.




   2404
   Governance Through Trading and Intervention: A Theory of Multiple Blockholders



   and Yan (2009) find that blockholders impound firm-specific information into
   prices.15
      After observing ṽ, each blockholder submits a market order xi (ṽ). Noise
              trade for exogenous liquidity reasons, submit a market order ˜ ∼
   traders, who
   N 0, σε2 , where ε and η are independent. We P use the term “liquidity” to refer
   to σε . After observing total order flow ỹ = i x
                                                   ei + ˜ , the competitive market
   maker sets the price p̃ equal to expected firm value.




                                                                                                                            Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
      The manager’s objective is to maximize the market value of his shares less
   the cost of effort. Each blockholder maximizes her trading profits, plus the
   fundamental value of her shares, less her cost of effort.16 In Section 4.3, we
   allow the objective functions of all players to depend on both the stock price
   and fundamental value.
      We solve for the equilibrium of the game by backward induction.

   2.1 The trading stage
   To proceed by backward induction, we take the decisions a of the manager
   and bi of the blockholders as given. (In equilibrium, these conjectures will
   be correct and equal the actions derived subsequently in Proposition 3.) The
   trading stage of the game is similar to Kyle (1985) and its extensions to mul-
   tiple informed investors (Kyle 1984; Admati and Pfleiderer 1988; Holden and
   Subrahmanyam 1992; Foster and Viswanathan 1993).
   Proposition 1. (Trading Equilibrium) The unique linear equilibrium of the
   trading stage is symmetric and has the form
                                                         P 
             xi (ṽ) = γ ṽ − φa log (1 + a) − φb log 1 + i bi  ∀i       (2)
                                                    P 
              p( ỹ) = φa log (1 + a) + φb log 1 + i bi + λ ỹ,          (3)
   where
                                                            √
                                                         I ση
                                                   λ=                                                               (4)
                                                      I + 1 σ
                                                       1 σε
                                                   γ =√      ,                                                      (5)
                                                        I ση

15 Parrino, Sias, and Starks (2003), Sias, Starks, and Titman (2006), and Gallagher, Gardner, and Swan (2010)
   document that blockholders typically trade on the market rather than using a negotiated block trade. This is
   because only the former method allows them to trade on their information by camouflaging with noise traders
   (as in Kyle 1985). Blockholders cannot trade on information in a negotiated trade because the counterparty
   engages in extensive due diligence since she is trading a large stake. Indeed, Barclay and Holderness (1991) find
   that negotiated block trades are rare and trades lead to stock price increases, inconsistent with the hypothesis that
   the selling blockholder is exiting on negative information. The event-study returns are independent of whether
   the block is traded at a premium or discount, rejecting the view that the trading parties have superior information
   to the market.
16 Each blockholder thus maximizes her individual objective function. The results are unchanged if blockholders
   can coordinate (either to share the costs of intervention, or limit their trading volumes), but the cost is increasing
   in the number of coordinating parties. An increase in I reduces the coordination costs for both intervention and
   trading, with the same effects as in the core model.




                                                                                                                 2405
The Review of Financial Studies / v 24 n 7 2011



and a and bi are the market maker’s and blockholders’ conjectures regarding
the actions. Each blockholder’s expected trading profits are given by
                                    1
                              √            ση σ  .                     (6)
                                 I (I + 1)

   Trading profits are increasing in ση , the blockholders’ informational advan-




                                                                                      Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
tage, and σ , their ability to profit from information by trading with liquid-
ity investors. In addition, aggregate blockholder trading profits are decreasing
in I , because multiple blockholders compete as in a Cournot oligopoly and
trade aggressively. While aggressive trading reduces aggregate profits, it also
impounds
     h      i more information into prices. Our definition of price informativeness
is E dd ṽp̃ , the expected change in price for a given change in firm value. This
definition is particularly relevant for our setting as it measures the incentives
to improve fundamental value of an agent compensated according to the stock
price. It will thus be used later to derive the manager’s optimal action. The
common measure used in the microstructure literature is (Var(ṽ) − Var(ṽ| p̃)) /
Var(ṽ), the proportion of the variance of ṽ that is captured by prices. Appendix
D shows that these measures are equivalent.
   The next proposition calculates price informativeness.
Proposition 2. (Price Informativeness) Price informativeness is equal to
I /(I + 1).
   Price informativeness is increasing in I . As I approaches infinity, prices
become fully informative. On the other hand, in the monopolistic Kyle model
(I = 1), the blockholder limits her order, and so prices reveal only one-half of
her private information.
   The positive link between the number of blockholders and price informative-
ness does not arise because a greater number of informed agents mechanically
increases the amount of information in the market. Indeed, a single blockholder
already has a perfect signal of fundamental value; since she faces no trading
constraints, she could theoretically impound this entire information into prices.
The amount of information in the economy is independent of I ; the effect on
price informativeness instead arises entirely from competition in trading.
   As is standard in Kyle-type models, liquidity σε has no effect on price infor-
mativeness. From (5), greater noise trading allows blockholders to trade more
aggressively. This increase in informed trading exactly counterbalances the ef-
fect of increased noise and leaves price informativeness unchanged. In Section
4.1, we show that liquidity has a positive effect on price informativeness under
costly information acquisition.

2.2 The action stage
We now solve for the actions of the manager and the blockholders in the first
stage. There is a unique symmetric equilibrium.



2406
Governance Through Trading and Intervention: A Theory of Multiple Blockholders



Proposition 3. (Optimal Actions) The manager’s optimal action is
                                        
                                      I
                         a = φa α          − 1,                                   (7)
                                    I +1

and combined blockholder actions are
                                   X                
                                                    1




                                                                                        Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
                                         bi = φb β     − 1,                       (8)
                                                    I
                                     i

In a symmetric equilibrium, the optimal action of each blockholder is
                                                2
                                                1    1
                                     bi = φb β      − .                           (9)
                                                I    I


Proof The manager maximizes the market value of his shares, less the cost of
effort:
                                                 p − a] .
                                             E [αe                               (10)

When setting the price p  e, the market maker uses his conjecture for the man-
ager’s action a. Therefore, the manager’s actual action affects the price only
through its influence on ṽ, and thus blockholders’ order flow. The manager’s
first-order condition is given by
                                        
                                d p̃     φa
                        α E                    − 1 = 0.                    (11)
                                d ṽ    1+a

From Proposition 2, his optimal action is therefore
                                         
                                     I
                          a=α               φa − 1.                              (12)
                                   I +1

   Each blockholder maximizes her trading profits, plus the fundamental value
of her shares, less her cost of effort. From (6), the blockholder’s trading profits
do not depend on bi , because it is public and thus does not affect her informa-
tional advantage. Therefore, blockholder i simply chooses bi to maximize the
fundamental value of her shares, less her cost of effort:
                                               
                                       β
                                 E         e − bi .
                                           v                                  (13)
                                       I

Her first-order condition is given by
                                         X          β
                                             bi =     φb − 1,
                                                    I
                                         i




                                                                                 2407
  The Review of Financial Studies / v 24 n 7 2011



  and so in a symmetric equilibrium, the action of blockholder i is
                                             2
                                              1        1
                                 bi = φb β         − .                             (14)
                                              I        I
                                                    P
     There also exist asymmetric equilibria, but i bi is uniquely defined. Since
  firm value depends on the sum of blockholder efforts, there is no loss of gen-
  erality by focusing on symmetric equilibria.




                                                                                          Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
     The manager’s action a is the product of three variables: the effectiveness
                                                                  I
  of effort φa , his equity stake α, and price informativeness I +1  . It is increasing
  in I as a higher I augments price informativeness, and so the stock price more
  closely reflects the firm’s fundamental value and thus the manager’s effort.
  In effect, blockholder trading rewards managerial effort ex post by impound-
  ing its effects into the stock price, therefore inducing it ex ante. The dynamic
  consistency of this reward mechanism depends on the number of blockhold-
  ers. Critically, trading occurs after the manager has taken his action, at which
  point shareholders are concerned only with maximizing their trading profits. A
  single blockholder optimizes her profits by limiting her order, at the expense
  of price informativeness. Therefore, the promise of rewarding effort by bid-
  ding up the price to fundamental value is not credible. By contrast, multiple
  blockholders trade aggressively, augmenting price informativeness, and thus
  constitute a commitment device to reward the manager ex post for his actions.
  While such aggressive trading is motivated purely by the private desire to max-
  imize individual profits in the presence of competition, it has a social benefit
  by eliciting managerial effort.                     P
     As is standard, combined blockholder effort i bi is decreasing in I , owing
  to the free-rider problem. Therefore, there is a tradeoff between the effects of I
  on intervention and trading. The coordination problems and externalities cre-
  ated by splitting a block play opposing roles in intervention and trading. For
  intervention, the externalities are positive: Intervention improves the value of
  other shareholders’ stakes, but this effect is not internalized by the individual
  blockholder. Since these externalities are positive, there is “too little” interven-
  tion with multiple blockholders, from a firm value standpoint. For trading, the
  externalities are negative. Higher trading volumes reveal more information to
  the market maker, leading to a less attractive price for other informed traders.
  Blockholders trade “too much” from the standpoint of maximizing combined
  profits. However, firm value does not depend on trading profits as they are a
  mere transfer from liquidity traders to blockholders. Instead, “too much” trad-
  ing is beneficial for firm value as it increases price informativeness and induces
  effort ex ante.

3. The Optimal Number of Blockholders
  This section derives the optimal number of blockholders. We start by deriv-
  ing the optimal number that maximizes firm value, and then analyze the social



  2408
   Governance Through Trading and Intervention: A Theory of Multiple Blockholders



   optimum (that maximizes total surplus) and the private optimum (that maxi-
   mizes the total payoff to blockholders).
   Proposition 4. (Firm Value Optimum) The number I ∗ of blockholders that
   maximizes firm value is17
                                    φa − φb
                               I∗ =         .                         (15)
                                       φb




                                                                                                                     Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
   Proof From Proposition 3, the expected firm value is
                                                        
                                      I                      1
               v ] = φa log φa α
             E[e                              + φb log φb β      .                                          (16)
                                    I +1                     I
   The first-order condition with respect to I is given by
                                            φa − φb − φb I
                                                           = 0.                                             (17)
                                                I + I2
   Iˆ = (φa − φb )/φb satisfies the first-order condition. Since the left-hand side of
   (17) is positive for I < Iˆ and negative for I > Iˆ, I ∗ is indeed a maximum.
      The number I ∗ of blockholders that maximizes firm value solves the trade-
   off between the positive effect of more blockholders on managerial effort, and
   the negative effect on blockholder intervention. The optimum is therefore in-
   creasing in φa , the productivity of the manager’s effort, and declining in φb ,
   the productivity of blockholder intervention.
      While Proposition 4 is concerned with maximizing firm value, the social op-
   timum maximizes total surplus, which also takes into account the effort costs
   borne by the manager and blockholders. In theory, the social optimum would
   be chosen by a social planner. If the noise traders are the firm’s atomistic share-
   holders (Kahn and Winton 1998; Bolton and von Thadden 1998), it will also
   be chosen by the initial owner when taking the firm public, since IPO proceeds
   will equal total surplus. The owner will have to compensate the blockholders
   (in the form of a lower issue price) for their expected intervention costs, and
   the manager for his effort in the form of a higher wage. Trading profits have no
   effect on IPO proceeds: While blockholders will pay a premium in expecta-
   tion of trading gains, small shareholders will demand discounts to offset their
   future losses.
   Proposition 5. (Social Optimum) The number Isoc    ∗ of blockholders that max-

   imizes total surplus is the unique positive solution to
                                  φa      φb     φa α     φb β
                                        −    −           + 2 = 0,                                           (18)
                              I (I + 1)    I   (I + 1) 2   I

17 In reality, the number of blockholders must be a strictly positive integer. To economize on notation, we ignore
                                             φ −φ                                      φ −φ
   such technicalities when stating I ∗ . If aφ b < 1, the optimal number is 1. If aφ b is a non-integer, the
                                               b                                          b
   optimal number is found by comparing (16) under the two adjacent integers.




                                                                                                          2409
The Review of Financial Studies / v 24 n 7 2011



which may be higher or lower than I ∗ . Isoc
                                         ∗ is increasing in φ and β, and
                                                             a
decreasing in φb and α.

Proof Total surplus is given by
                                                      
                   I                        1               I            1
 φa log φa α             + φb log φb β           − φa α           − φb β + 2.
                I +1                        I             I +1           I




                                                                                           Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
                                                                           (19)
Differentiating yields (18). Appendix A proves that there is a unique posi-
tive solution and that it maximizes (19). It also addresses the comparative
statics.
   Compared to (16), (19) contains two additional terms. Increasing I raises the
cost of managerial effort, but reduces the combined cost of blockholder effort.
The social optimum may thus be higher or lower than the firm value optimum.
If β rises, total blockholder costs φb β 1I − 1 become more important in the
social welfare function, and so Isoc∗ rises to reduce these costs by lowering

intervention. Conversely, a rise in α increases the importance of the manager’s
                        ∗ . The comparative statics with respect to φ and φ
costs and thus lowers Isoc                                             a       b
are the same as in Proposition 4.
   Finally, we analyze the privately optimal division of β that would maxi-
mize blockholders’ combined payoffs. This optimum would be endogenously
chosen by the blockholders themselves and is robust to retrading.

Proposition 6. (Private Optimum) The number I priv  ∗     of blockholders that
maximizes total blockholders’ payoff is the unique positive solution to
                                    
                   φa      φb    φb          (I − 1)
           β             −     + 2 − √                  ση σε = 0,        (20)
               I (I + 1)    I     I        2 I (I + 1)2
                                                                  ∗ . I∗
which may be higher or lower than I ∗ , and higher or lower than Isoc  priv is
increasing in φa and β, and decreasing in φb and ση σε .

Proof Total blockholders’ payoff is given by
                                                                     √
                              I                       1              1         I
 β φa log φa α                          + φb log φb β          − φb β + 1 +      ση σε .
                            I +1                      I              I      I +1
                                                                                    (21)
   Differentiating yields (20). Appendix A proves that there is a unique pos-
itive solution and that it maximizes (21). It also addresses the comparative
statics.
   The blockholders’ objective function differs from firm value in three ways.
They only enjoy β of any increase in firm value; bear the costs of intervention;
and are concerned with informed trading profits. Increasing I above I ∗ has
an ambiguous effect: It reduces the combined costs of intervention, but also
reduces total trading profits by exacerbating competition. Therefore, as with



2410
  Governance Through Trading and Intervention: A Theory of Multiple Blockholders



  the social optimum, the private optimum may be higher or lower than the firm
  value optimum. An increase in β causes blockholders’ effort costs to become
                                                      ∗
  more important in the objective function and so I priv  rises. If ση σε increases,
                                                    ∗
  trading profits become more important and so I priv falls to lower competition.
     The blockholders’ objective function also differs from the social welfare
  function in three ways. Blockholders are concerned with trading profits and
  only β of firm value, but ignore the cost of managerial effort. Again, the sum




                                                                                          Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
                                                           ∗ both reduces profits
  of these three effects is ambiguous. Increasing I above Isoc
  and increases the manager’s costs. The comparative statics with respect to φa
  and φb are the same as in Propositions 4 and 5.

4. Extensions
  4.1 Costly information acquisition
  In the core model, blockholders are endowed with private information about
  firm value ṽ. In this subsection, they are initially uninformed but can learn ṽ by
  paying a cost c in the first stage of the game. Blockholders that do not pay this
  cost remain uninformed in the second stage. To solve this modified version of
  the model, we again use backward induction.
  Proposition 7. (Equilibrium with Costly Information) Let J be the number
  of blockholders that acquire information in the first stage of the game. Then,
  in the unique linear equilibrium of the trading stage, the I − J uninformed
  blockholders do not trade in aggregate. The J informed blockholders submit
  demands as in (2), and the market maker sets the price as in (3) with
                                        √
                                          J ση
                                  λ=                                        (22)
                                       J + 1 σ
                                        1 σ
                                  γ =√        .                             (23)
                                         J ση
  In the first stage of the game, the manager’s optimal action is
                                               
                                            J
                               a = φa α           − 1,                             (24)
                                          J +1
  and the optimal action of each blockholder is
                                         2
                                         1      1
                              bi = φb β        − .                                 (25)
                                         I      I
  The number J of blockholders that acquire information is
                                            J = min{I, n},
  where n satisfies
                                              1
                                        √            ση σ = c.
                                            n(n + 1)



                                                                                   2411
The Review of Financial Studies / v 24 n 7 2011



   Proposition 7 shows that when I is sufficiently large (greater than n), some
blockholders choose not to acquire information. If all blockholders become
informed, competition in trading is sufficiently fierce that trading profits are
insufficient to recoup the cost c. Hence, in equilibrium, some blockholders
remain uninformed and do not participate in the trading stage.
   Turning to the optimal number of blockholders, it is never efficient to have
I greater than n. If I > n, then from Proposition 7, some blockholders will




                                                                                       Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
not acquire information in equilibrium. Uninformed blockholders do not trade
and thus have no effect on governance through trading. Moreover, they dilute
ownership and reduce incentives to engage in intervention. Uninformed block-
holders are thus unambiguously detrimental to firm value, and so the optimum
involves no such blockholders. This leads to the next proposition.
Proposition 8. (Firm Value Optimum with Costly Information) The number
 ∗
Icostly of blockholders that maximizes firm value with costly information ac-
quisition is equal to
                                                  
                          ∗              φa − φb
                         Icostly = min           ,n .                    (26)
                                            φb

If n < φaφ−φ
           b
             b    ∗
               , Icostly and firm value are increasing in ση and σε and decreasing
in c. If n ≥ φaφ−φ
                 b
                   b    ∗
                     , Icostly and firm value are independent of ση , σε , and c.
    ∗
   Icostly is weakly increasing in ση and σ and weakly decreasing in c. The in-
tuition is as follows. If n < φaφ−φ
                                  b
                                    b
                                      , the optimum with costless information I ∗ is
so large that competition in trading reduces individual trading profits below the
cost of information. Some blockholders would choose to remain uninformed,
and their existence would reduce firm value. The optimum is therefore n, the
maximum number under which competition is sufficiently low that all block-
holders become informed. A fall in the cost of information c, an increase in
the informational advantage ση , and a rise in liquidity σε all lead to an increase
in net trading profits. Higher net profits in turn raise n, as they allow greater
competition to be sustained before net profits become negative. This in turn
             ∗
increases Icostly  toward I ∗ , and thus raises firm value.
   By contrast, if n > φaφ−φ
                           b
                             b
                               , net trading profits are sufficiently high that all
blockholders become informed. The analysis is as in the core model of Section
3, where the optimum depends only on φa and φb . The constraint that I is
sufficiently low to induce information acquisition is not binding. Changes in
net trading profits, and thus changes in ση , σε , and c, have no effect on the
optimal number of blockholders or firm value.

4.2 Complementarities
In the core model, the manager’s and blockholders’ actions are perfect substi-
tutes, with independent effects on firm value. The marginal productivity of the



2412
Governance Through Trading and Intervention: A Theory of Multiple Blockholders


Table 2
Classification of blockholders’ and manager’s actions as substitutes or complements

                                                               Blockholder Action
                                            Advisory             Rent Extraction      Perk Prevention
Manager              Initiative             Positive               Substitutes          Substitutes
Action                                    Complements
                                                                                        Negative
                 Rent Extraction           Substitutes             Substitutes        Complements




                                                                                                        Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
manager’s (blockholders’) effort is unaffected by the effort level of the other
              ∂2v
party, i.e., ∂a∂b i
                    = 0. This assumption likely applies to a number of settings:
For example, rent extraction by the blockholders reduces firm value regardless
of the manager’s effort; and managerial initiative is unaffected by blockholder
perk prevention or rent extraction.
   In some cases, there may be complementarities between the manager’s and
blockholders’ efforts. This subsection extends the core model to these cases.
If complementarities are positive, the marginal productivity of one party’s
                                                                     ∂2v
action is increasing in the effort level of the other party, i.e., ∂a∂b  i
                                                                            ≥ 0.
This arises if manager and blockholder outputs are mutually interdependent,
in particular, if the main managerial action is initiative and the main block-
holder action is advising. For example, venture capital investors have exper-
tise in devising an effective strategy, which is then executed by the manager.
Both strategy formulation and implementation are necessary for firm
success.
   With positive complementarities, blockholders are “allies” of the manager,
providing him with advice. Negative complementarities arise if blockholders
are “adversaries” of the manager—for example, if their main value added is
perk prevention, and rent extraction is an important managerial action. Block-
                                                             ∂2v
holders are most productive if managerial effort is low ( ∂a∂b   i
                                                                   ≤ 0), i.e., the
manager is pursuing private benefits. Negative complementarities are most
likely in mature firms, where the optimal strategy is often clear to the man-
ager. Inefficiencies arise not because the manager is unaware of the correct
course of action and needs blockholders’ advice, but because he has private
incentives to depart from the efficient action. For example, managers of “cash
cows” know that they should return excess cash to shareholders, but may in-
stead reinvest it inefficiently. Table 2 summarizes whether actions are likely
to be substitutes or positive or negative complements depending on their
type.
   We analyze complementarities using the boundary cases of perfect positive
(negative) complementarities, where firm value depends only on the minimum
(maximum) output level of the manager and blockholders, as these scenarios
are most tractable within our framework and thus allow the clearest empirical



                                                                                              2413
   The Review of Financial Studies / v 24 n 7 2011



   predictions.18 Reality will typically lie between these two extremes, and the
   optimum for an interior level of complementarity may be inferred by inter-
   polating between the boundary cases. For example, we will see that the zero
   complementarities case of the core model lies between the two extremes.
     We commence with perfect positive complementarities, which we model
   with a Leontief production function:




                                                                                                                        Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
                                                         P 
                       e = min φa log (1 + a) , φb log 1 + i bi + η
                       v                                          e.                                          (27)
   The optimal actions can no longer be derived independently. The manager’s
   optimal action depends on his conjecture b      bi for the blockholders’ actions.
   Blockholder i’s optimal action depends on her conjecture for the manager’s
           a ) and for the actions of the other blockholders (b
   effort (b                                                  b j , j 6= i).
   Proposition 9. (Perfect Positive Complementarities) The manager’s optimal
   action is
                                                            
                          I                 φb        P 
        a = min φa α             − 1, exp                bi − 1
                                               log 1 + i b         .    (28)
                        I +1                φa
      Blockholder i’s effort level is
                                                        "                          #
               2                                                    2   P
         
                1       1                                             1   1      b
         
          φb β I − I if φa log (1 + a       b) ≥ φb log 1 + φb β I − I +         bj
         
                                                                            j6=i
         
                                   P
         
         
         
          exp φφab log (1 + a b) − b      bj − 1
         
                                     j6=i
         
                                              !
         
                                       P
                      if φb log 1 +          bj ≤ φa log (1 + a
                                             b                     b)
   bi =                                                                              .
         
                                "      j6=i                       #
         
                                              2
         
                                                          P
         
                     <  φ   log   1 +  φ   β  1
                                                   − 1I + b     bj
         
         
                           b              b     I
         
                                                        ! j6=i
         
         
         
                                                  P
                                                     bj
         0 if φa log (1 + a
                             b) < φb log 1 +         b
                                                                 j6=i
                                                                                                              (29)
      The number I ∗ of blockholders that maximizes firm value is the unique pos-
   itive solution to
                              I2     φb β
                                 =        exp (φb − φa ) .                   (30)
                            I +1     φa α
       I ∗ is increasing in φb and β, and decreasing in φa and α.

18 An alternative way to model complementarities is to use a constant elasticity of substitution production function,
                                          P ρ 1/ρ
         e = (φa log(1 + a))ρ + φb log 1 + i bi
   e.g., v                                                 +e η. Such a production function does not yield tractable
   solutions in our framework owing to the logarithmic functional form, which is necessary for the core model (see
   footnote 10).




   2414
Governance Through Trading and Intervention: A Theory of Multiple Blockholders



   As with the core case, I ∗ is typically an interior solution, i.e., involves mul-
tiple, but finite, blockholders. However, the comparative statics with respect
to φa and φb are opposite to the core case. In the core case, I ∗ is increasing
in φa . If managerial effort becomes more productive, it becomes increasingly
important in the tradeoff between trading and intervention, and so I ∗ rises to
enhance trading. With complements, I ∗ must balance the levels of manager
and blockholder outputs. If φa rises, managerial effort is more effective and




                                                                                                       Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
so it is not necessary to “boost” it via a high I . Instead, I should be used to
enhance blockholder effort so that it becomes sufficiently high to complement
the manager’s output. This involves reducing I .
   We now turn to the case of perfect negative complementarities, i.e.,

                                                    P 
                  e = max φa log (1 + a) , φb log 1 + i bi + η
                  v                                          e.                               (31)

Proposition 10. (Perfect Negative Complementarities) The manager’s opti-
mal action is
                                              h            i                    P 
             I                   I                       I
    
     φ a α I +1   −  1  if  α  I +1    φ a log   φ a α I +1   −   φ b log  1 +      i bi
    
                     I
a=        ≥ φa α I +1 − 1                                                                          .
    
                                h           i                             
    0 if α I φ log φ α I − φ log 1 + P b  <φ α I − 1.
    
                I +1     a           a I +1           b                 i i         a I +1
                                                                                               (32)
  Similarly, blockholder i’s effort level is
                                                  "                                 #
                  2                                                       P
        
                  1          1      β                            1      1        bj
        
         φb β I − I if I φb log 1 + φb β I 2 − I +                               b
        
                                                                            j6=i
        
                                   !
        
                                                2
        
        
         −φa log (1 + a       b) ≥ φb β 1I − 1I
  bi =                            "                                 #                        ! .
        
        
        
                                                            P
        
         0 if βI φb log 1 + φb β I12 − 1I +                      bj − φa log (1 + a
                                                                  b                       b)
        
        
        
                                                            j6=i
        
                        2
        
         < φb β 1 − 1 .
                           I          I
                                                                                               (33)
  The number of blockholders I ∗ that maximizes firm value is
                           
                           ∞ if φa log (φa α) ≥ φb log (φb β)
                   I∗ =                                                           .            (34)
                           1 if φ log (φ α) < φ log (φ β)
                                        a         a          b          b



  In the core model of perfect substitutes, firm value depends on both manager
and blockholder efforts. Since the optimal shareholder structure must tradeoff
both, I ∗ is typically an interior solution. Here, firm value depends only on the



                                                                                             2415
The Review of Financial Studies / v 24 n 7 2011



maximum output level and there are no tradeoff concerns. If blockholder effort
is relatively productive, I ∗ should be chosen exclusively to maximize the po-
tency of intervention and completely ignores trading; thus, I ∗ is at its minimum
value of 1. By contrast, if managerial effort is relatively productive, I ∗ = ∞.
This case represents fully dispersed ownership; since empirical studies define
a blockholder as a shareholder who owns above a minimum threshold, it will
appear in the data as zero blockholders. Therefore, under perfect negative com-




                                                                                      Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
plementarities, there is either zero or one blockholder. Indeed, Table 1 shows
that both of these cases are common in the data.
   With perfect substitutes, I ∗ is smoothly increasing in φa . Here, I ∗ remains
weakly increasing in φa , but φa has a discontinuous effect. If φa log (φa α) <
φb log (φb β), I ∗ is independent of φa . A small increase in φa has zero ef-
fect on I ∗ : Since blockholder effort is still more productive, I ∗ continues
to be exclusively determined by intervention. However, when φa rises above
the level for which φa log (φa α) = φb log (φb β), I ∗ jumps from 1 to ∞. For
φa log (φa α) ≥ φb log (φb β), I ∗ is already exclusively determined by trading,
and so further increases in φa have no effect on I ∗ . Similarly, changes in φb
have either a zero or infinite effect on I ∗ . Negative complementarities there-
fore lead to more extreme results than the core model. The optimal number of
blockholders is a corner solution; φa and φb have the same directional effect
as in the core model, but their impacts are discontinuous.
   Combining all of the results, with perfect negative complementarities, I ∗ is
either 1 or ∞ and is driven entirely by the more productive action. As comple-
mentarities become less negative, I ∗ becomes less extreme and is determined
by the productivity of both actions; it continues to be increasing in φa and
decreasing in φb . The core case of perfect substitutes is an example. Once
complementarities become sufficiently high, we approach the case of perfect
complements, and the effects of φa and φb change direction.


4.3 General objective functions
In the core model, the manager’s payoff stems from the market value of his
shares, αe
         p , as in Holmstrom and Tirole (1993). In a more general setting, the
manager can be compensated according to the fundamental value v    e as well as
the market value p e, for instance using long-vesting stock. We thus generalize
the manager’s objective function from (10) to


                                         p + (1 − ω)e
                                  E [α (ωe          v ) − a] .                (35)

The actual level of ω will reflect factors outside the model and introduced
in earlier work, such as takeover threat (Stein 1988), concern for managerial
reputation (Narayanan 1985; Scharfstein and Stein 1990), or the manager ex-
                               e before v
pecting to sell his shares for p        e is realized, e.g., to finance consumption



2416
   Governance Through Trading and Intervention: A Theory of Multiple Blockholders



   (Stein 1989).19 Even if the manager’s sole objective is to maximize long-run
   shareholder value, he will care about the stock price as it affects the terms at
   which the firm can raise equity at t = 2 (Stein 1996).
      Similarly, in the core model, each blockholder maximizes her share of fun-
   damental value less the cost of effort when choosing her action. More gen-
   erally, the blockholder may place weight on the short-term stock price, for
   example if she expects to receive a liquidity shock that will force her to sell




                                                                                                                      Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
   her shares in the interim regardless of her private information (Miller and
   Rock 1985; Faure-Grimaud and Gromb 2004). We thus generalize each block-
   holder’s objective function from (13) to
                                                        
                               β
                           E           e + (1 − ζ )e
                                    (ζ p           v ) − bi .
                                I
       The core model has ω = 1 and ζ = 0. The new equilibrium is given below.
                                                               ∗ of block-
   Proposition 11. (General Compensation Contract) The number Igen
   holders that maximizes firm value is the larger root of
                              φa ω   φb (I + 1)2 − ζ (2I + 1)
                                   −                          =0                                             (36)
                            I +1−ω    I       I +1−ζ
                                                              ∗ is increasing in ω,
   if Equation (36) has solutions for I ≥ 1. In this case, Igen
   ζ and φa , and decreasing in φb . If (36) has no solutions for I ≥ 1, I ∗ = 1.
                               ∗ represents a tradeoff between price informative-
      As in the core model, Igen
   ness and intervention. The positive effect of I on stock price efficiency is more
   important when the manager is more closely aligned with the stock price, and
        ∗ increases in the manager’s short-term concerns ω. Similarly, I ∗ is
   so Igen                                                                      gen
   increasing with blockholders’ short-term concerns ζ . This is for two reasons.
   First, when ζ is high, blockholder effort is low: Effort affects p    e to a lesser
   extent than ve, since the stock price is only partially informative, and so if she
   places greater weight on p  e, she is less rewarded for her effort. When inter-
   vention is low, the negative effect of increasing blockholders on intervention
   is less important. Second, when blockholders care about the stock price, their
   effort depends on price informativeness. Since a rise in I raises price informa-
   tiveness, this augments their effort.
      In addition to generating additional comparative statics for ω and ζ , this
   extension demonstrates that the results of the core model do not stem from the
   fact that we modeled the blockholders as having a more long-term objective
   than the manager (i.e., maximize their share of v e while the manager maximizes
   his share of pe). Even if blockholders have shorter horizons than the manager
   (ζ < ω), the results continue to hold; in fact, the case for multiple blockholders
   is even stronger when blockholders have short-term concerns.

19 Kole (1997) shows that vesting periods are short in practice, perhaps because long vesting periods would subject
   the manager to excessive risk.




                                                                                                           2417
The Review of Financial Studies / v 24 n 7 2011



4.4 Unobservable blockholder actions
This section extends the model to allowing the blockholders’ actions bi to be
unobservable. Now, a blockholder can earn additional trading profits by taking
an action different from the market maker’s conjecture, so we must compute
her trading profits off the equilibrium path. The market maker conjectures an
expected firm value of
                                                   P 
                                                      bi ,




                                                                                                      Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
                    μ = φa ln (1 + a b) + φb ln 1 + i b
where a      bi are his conjectures for the manager’s and blockholders’ actions.
       b and b
However, blockholder i may choose an action bi 6= b       bi , which will yield a
different expected value of
                                                               
                                                  X
              E ṽ = φa ln (1 + a b) + φb ln 1 +      bj + bi  .
                                                        b
                                                               j6=i

  Her trading profits are given by
                                                                        
                       1                              I
E xi (ṽ − p̃) = E            (ṽ − μ) ṽ − μ − λ             (ṽ − μ) + ε
                     (I + 1)λ                       (I + 1) λ
                       1
                =√           ση σε
                   I (I + 1)
                                                                      !     !2
                      1      σε                                 X
                +√                φa log (1 + a) + φb log 1 +       bi − μ ,
                   I (I + 1) ση                                                    i

and so her overall objective function is
        
         β                      1
  max        E ṽ − bi + √               ση σε
   bi    I                     I (I + 1)
                                                                               !        !2
                   1σε                                                X
       + √                         φa log (1 + a) + φb log 1 +            bi       −μ        . (37)
           I (I + 1) η
                    σ
                                                                      i

     We wish to show that, if the market maker conjectures bi = φIb2β − 1I ∀ i,
then it is indeed optimal for blockholder i to take action bi = φIb2β − 1I .
Proposition 12. (Unobservable Blockholder Actions) If either
                                              β            σε
                                                         >                                     (38)
                                      φb (1 + ln (φb β))   ση
or
                                          φb β − 1      σε
                                          2
                                                      >    ,                                   (39)
                                         φb ln (φb β)   ση



2418
  Governance Through Trading and Intervention: A Theory of Multiple Blockholders



  then
                                                     
                                                   I
                                       a = φa α         −1
                                                 I +1
                                                 2
                                                 1      1
                                      bi = φb β      −
                                                 I      I




                                                                                          Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
  is an equilibrium.
     The conjectured action bi = φIb2β − 1I maximizes the blockholder’s share of
  firm value less her cost of intervention. By deviating, the blockholder reduces
  this objective (the “fundamental motive”), but also earns additional trading
  profits since she now has private information on bi (the “trading motive”).
  Either condition (38) or (39) is sufficient to ensure that the trading motive is
  sufficiently weak to deter such deviations. The parameters in the conditions
  are intuitive. Recall from Equation (5) that the sensitivity of the blockholder’s
  trade to fundamental value is given by γ = √1 σσηε . When φb is higher, a given
                                                    I
  deviation in bi has a larger effect on firm value. When σσηε is higher, this in turn
  leads to a greater change in the blockholder’s trade, and so the trading motive
  becomes stronger. Thus, conditions (38) and (39) are more likely to be satisfied
  if φb and σσηε are low. Similarly, if β is high, the blockholder has a high share
  of fundamental value, and so the fundamental motive is stronger.
     If neither condition is satisfied, the actions a and bi stated in Proposition 12
  may not constitute an equilibrium, as trading profits are sufficiently strong that
  the blockholder will always wish to deviate from the market maker’s conjec-
  ture. In this case, there is no alternative pure strategy equilibrium.
  Proposition 13. (Uniqueness of Equilibrium) The equilibrium actions stated
  in Proposition 12 constitute the unique symmetric equilibrium in purePstrate-
  gies. Moreover, any asymmetric equilibrium in pure strategies satisfies i bi =
  φb β/I − 1.
     Proposition 13 states that, if actions a and bi stated in Proposition 12 do not
  constitute an equilibrium, then there cannot exist a symmetric equilibrium in
  pure strategies.
         P         Moreover, any asymmetric equilibrium in pure strategies must
  satisfy i bi = φb β/I − 1, and therefore differs from our equilibrium only in
  terms of the division of rents among blockholders, as in the case of observable
  actions studied in Proposition 3. The analysis of mixed strategy equilibria is
  beyond the scope of this article, which focuses on the tradeoff between trading
  and intervention. (See Maug 1998 and Kahn and Winton 1998 for analysis of
  mixed strategy equilibria in a single blockholder model.)

5. Empirical Implications
  This article is motivated by the empirical observation that many firms are held
  by multiple small blockholders, in contrast to theories that advocate highly



                                                                                   2419
   The Review of Financial Studies / v 24 n 7 2011



   concentrated ownership. The model generates a number of additional empir-
   ical implications, over and above its initial motivation. It suggests new ways
   of thinking about blockholders that may give rise to novel directions for em-
   pirical research. First, the article views blockholders as competing for trading
   profits rather than private benefits, thus linking the previously separate block-
   holder and microstructure literatures. Second, it suggests studying the number
   of blockholders rather than (or in addition to) total ownership or the stake




                                                                                                                     Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
   of the largest shareholder. These two broad themes in turn generate specific
   predictions for the effects of blockholder structure, and the determinants of
   blockholder structure. We commence with the former.
      The model suggests that the number of blockholders impacts both financial
   markets and firm value. Starting with the first set of effects, it predicts that
   a greater number of blockholders reduces total trading profits, but increases
   price efficiency. Gallagher, Gardner, and Swan (2010) find support for both
   predictions; Gorton, Huang, and Kang (2010) show that price informative-
   ness is increasing in the number of blockholders; and Boehmer and Kelley
   (2009) find that it is increasing in the dispersion of ownership among institu-
   tional traders (the last two studies do not investigate trading profits). Turning
   to the second set, multiple blockholders can improve firm value, in contrast to
   existing models that advocate a single concentrated blockholder.20 Gallagher,
   Gardner, and Swan find that the threat of disciplinary trading from multiple
   blockholders leads to superior subsequent firm performance. They use a mea-
   sure of portfolio churning to specifically test governance through trading rather
   than control contests. Smith and Swan (2008) show that institutional trading is
   successful at disciplining executive pay. Multiple investors with frequent trad-
   ing have the greatest effect; total institutional ownership matters only insofar
   as it affects trading activity. Kandel, Massa, and Simonov (forthcoming) find
   that multiple shareholders that trade in the same direction are associated with
   higher firm value and profitability. Bharath, Jayaraman, and Nagar (2010) doc-
   ument that U.S. firms with multiple blockholders have higher Tobin’s Q than
   firms with a single blockholder; Laeven and Levine (2007) find a similar result
   with international data.
      The effect of the number of blockholders on prices and firm value suggests
   that it is an important determinant of both market efficiency and corporate
   governance. Many empirical papers use total institutional ownership as a mea-
   sure of market efficiency, since institutions have greater information than retail
   traders. However, price efficiency depends not only on the amount of informa-
   tion held by investors, but on the extent to which this information is impounded
   into prices. The latter in turn depends on the number of informed shareholders.

20 If I is always at the firm value optimum, there should be no relationship between I and firm value, when
   controlling for the joint determinants of I and firm value. Demsetz and Lehn (1985) made this point in the
   context of managerial ownership and firm value. However, the empirically observed I is likely to be the private
   optimum, which differs from the firm value optimum. Moreover, the private optimum may shift for exogenous
   reasons, such as a blockholder suffering a change in management or a liquidity shock.




   2420
   Governance Through Trading and Intervention: A Theory of Multiple Blockholders



   Similarly, many studies use total institutional ownership or the stake of the
   largest investor as a proxy for corporate governance, but the model suggests
   that the number of blockholders is another important factor and thus may be
   relevant for future empirical work. Bharath, Jayaraman, and Nagar (2010) and
   Gorton, Huang, and Kang (2010) are two recent empirical studies that investi-
   gate the effect of blockholder numbers, and Konijn, Krässel, and Lucas (2009)
   study the effect of blockholder dispersion, which is positively correlated with




                                                                                                                             Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
   numbers.
      Our model also generates predictions concerning the determinants of block-
   holder structure. To our knowledge, none of these predictions have been tested
   formally, as empirical studies have focused largely on total institutional own-
   ership or the stake of the largest blockholder rather than the number of block-
   holders, and so they are potential topics for future research.21 In the article, we
   considered different criteria for the optimal number of blockholders. In prac-
   tice, sometimes the social optimum may be observed, for instance if the firm
   has recently undergone an IPO, or lockups prevent blockholders from retrading
   from the initial structure. For most firms, it is most likely that the private op-
   timum will be observed (see also Maug 1998). Importantly, both optima share
   the same predictions for φa and φb : The number of blockholders is increasing
   (decreasing) in the productivity of the manager’s (blockholders’) effort.
      We first consider the core model of perfect substitutes. The magnitude of
   φb depends on the nature of blockholders’ expertise. Using the terminology
   of Dow and Gorton (1997), if blockholders have forward-looking (“prospec-
   tive”) information about optimal future investments or strategic choices, inter-
   vention is particularly valuable and φb is high. For example, activist investors
   (e.g., Kirk Kerkorian or Carl Icahn) are typically expert at preventing perks
   or empire-building; venture capitalists have skills in advising. On the other
   hand, passive mutual funds and insurance companies typically lack specialist
   expertise in managing a firm, but instead are adept at gathering backward-
   looking (“retrospective”) information to evaluate the effect of past decisions
   on firm value. Their primary benefit is to impound the effects of prior man-
   agerial effort into the stock price. In such a case, φb is low and I ∗ is high.
   Another determinant of φb is blockholders’ control rights and thus ability to
   intervene (holding constant the size of their individual stakes).22 Black (1990)
   and Bebchuk (2007) note that U.S. shareholders face substantial legal and in-
   stitutional hurdles to intervention, compared to their foreign counterparts. This
   reduces φb , thus increasing I ∗ , and is consistent with smaller and more numer-
   ous blockholders in the U.S.



21 Maury and Pajuste (2005) and Laeven and Levine (2007) report the number of blockholders, but do not relate
   them to cross-sectional determinants.
22 In reality, control rights will likely be increasing in the size of each blockholder’s individual stake β/I . This will
   reinforce the negative effect of I on intervention currently in this article.




                                                                                                                  2421
The Review of Financial Studies / v 24 n 7 2011



   The manager’s effectiveness φa will be higher if he is more talented. Talent
can be measured directly using managerial characteristics, such as education,
experience, or past performance, or proxied by salary (see Gabaix and Landier
2008). The manager’s effectiveness φa also depends on the manager’s scope
to use his initiative or extract rents. It is likely lower in regulated firms, and
high in firms with free cash flow problems. The latter implication suggests that
mature firms should be held by many blockholders, which reinforces the earlier




                                                                                      Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
predictions. It is also likely higher in large firms because many managerial
actions can be “rolled out” across the entire firm—for example, if the CEO
designs a new method to reduce production costs, this can be applied firmwide.
   Negative complementarities may arise if the manager has significant scope
for rent extraction that can be prevented by intervention, such as in mature
firms with high agency costs of free cash flow. If investors are passive, φa will
be significantly higher than φb , and so the model predicts dispersed ownership.
By contrast, if blockholders are activist and skilled in perk prevention, it is ef-
ficient to have a single blockholder. Both of these predictions reinforce earlier
results.
   Positive complementarities typically occur in startup firms. The main man-
agerial action is initiative, and early-stage investors (such as venture capital-
ists) are expert at advising the manager (e.g., by devising a strategy for the
manager to implement). Typically, φa will be significantly greater than φb :
The manager is able to add greater value than blockholders, given his close
proximity to firm operations. In such a case, Section 4.2 predicts that I ∗ is
lower under positive complementarities than perfect substitutes. Moreover, in
start-ups, the manager often has a significant equity stake (high α), which gives
him strong incentives to exert effort. From Equation (30), I ∗ should be low to
ensure that blockholder effort is also high. This may explain the concentrated
blockholder structure in early-stage firms, even after such firms go public and
the trading governance mechanism becomes available.
   Section 4.1 shows that if information is costly, the optimal number of block-
holders depends on microstructure features: It is decreasing in the information
cost c, increasing in blockholders’ private information ση , and increasing in
market liquidity σε . Indeed, Fang, Noe, and Tice (2009) find a causal rela-
tionship between liquidity and firm value. While many other papers also gen-
erate a positive effect of liquidity on firm value (e.g., Holmstrom and Tirole
1993), here the specific mechanism is through changing blockholder structure.
Bharath, Jayaraman, and Nagar (2010) find that liquidity is particularly ben-
eficial for firm value where there are more blockholders. This is consistent
with the model because, if blockholders are numerous, a large volume of noise
trading is necessary to induce them all to gather information.
   Turning to the predictions regarding c and ση , we previously established
that institutions skilled at gathering retrospective information have low φb , in-
creasing I ∗ . Such institutions also likely have a low cost of monitoring and
superior information, further reinforcing the prediction that I ∗ is high. Indeed,



2422
  Governance Through Trading and Intervention: A Theory of Multiple Blockholders



  as firms mature, active venture capitalist investors are typically replaced by
  passive institutional shareholders, and the number of blockholders usually in-
  creases. Note that this association could be for reasons outside the model. As
  firms mature, they typically become larger; if blockholder wealth constraints
  limit the number of dollars they can invest in a firm (Winton 1993), this will
  lead to more dispersed ownership. Therefore, the above empirical observation
  is only tentative support for the model; a formal test will have to control for




                                                                                          Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
  factors such as firm size.
     The theory also suggests that trading is most important where the man-
  ager’s short-term concerns ω are highest. Therefore, the number of blockhold-
  ers should be higher when the manager’s stock and options have shorter vesting
  periods, or takeover defenses are weaker. Again, simple cross-sectional corre-
  lations will be insufficient to support this prediction, since blockholders can
  plausibly affect the compensation contract. In addition, the number of block-
  holders is increasing in blockholders’ short-term concerns ζ , which could be
  proxied by blockholders’ trading frequency. Hence the model predicts a pos-
  itive correlation between the number of blockholders and trading frequency
  because of causation in both directions: Dispersed blockholders trade aggres-
  sively; and if a firm’s blockholders are frequent traders who rarely intervene,
  they should adopt a dispersed structure. Gallagher, Gardner, and Swan (2010)
  find evidence of multiple small blockholders engaging in frequent “churning”
  trades.
     While the theory appears to generate a number of untested predictions
  through a different conceptualization of blockholders to prior research, we
  caveat that empirical testing will have to overcome a number of challenges.
  First, although the model yields clear, closed-form predictions for the opti-
  mal number of blockholders in terms of certain variables, a number of these
  parameters (such as the effectiveness of blockholder and manager effort) are
  difficult to measure directly. The key challenge for empiricists is to come up
  with accurate proxies. Second, while the model predicts that these variables
  have a causal impact on blockholder structure, it may be that additional factors
  outside the model have an effect on both. Therefore, documenting correlations
  will be insufficient to support the model; identification of causal effects will
  require careful instrumentation.


6. Conclusion
  Why are so many firms held by multiple blockholders when such a share-
  holding structure generates free-rider problems in monitoring? This article
  offers a potential explanation. The same coordination issues that hinder inter-
  vention increase blockholders’ effectiveness in exerting governance through an
  alternative mechanism: trading. Multiple blockholders act competitively when
  trading, impounding more information into prices. This in turn induces higher
  managerial effort, particularly if the manager has high stock price concerns.



                                                                                   2423
   The Review of Financial Studies / v 24 n 7 2011



      The optimal number of blockholders depends on the relative productivity of
   managerial and blockholder effort. If outputs are perfect substitutes, the opti-
   mum is decreasing in the effectiveness of blockholder intervention and increas-
   ing in the potency of managerial effort. It is therefore high if blockholders are
   mutual funds that gather retrospective rather than prospective information, and
   low if they are activists. This dependence becomes stronger under negative
   complementarities. However, if complementarities are positive, the produc-




                                                                                                                          Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
   tivity parameters have opposite effects on the optimal shareholder structure.
   If blockholder effort is unproductive, concentrated ownership is necessary to
   augment it to a sufficient level to complement the manager’s effort.
      The article suggests a number of potential avenues for future research. On
   the empirical side, the model highlights the importance of the number of block-
   holders. As an independent variable, it is a relevant determinant of both gov-
   ernance and price efficiency; as a dependent variable, the model identifies a
   number of underlying factors that affect the optimal blockholder structure.
   On the theoretical side, the article assumes symmetric blockholders and fo-
   cuses the analysis on their optimal number. It would be interesting to extend
   the analysis to introduce asymmetries and examine the optimal distribution of
   shares between a fixed number of blockholders.23 Another possible asymme-
   try would be to feature some blockholders specializing in trading and others
   in intervention, as in Faure-Grimaud and Gromb (2004), Aghion, Bolton, and
   Tirole (2004), and Attari, Banerjee, and Noe (2006) (although these models
   feature only one type of each blockholder). Similarly, while we have focused
   our study on the efficient number of blockholders, the model can be expanded
   to consider the simultaneous determination of the manager’s stake and total
   blockholder ownership.
      More broadly, the model suggests a new way of thinking about the interac-
   tions between multiple blockholders: as competing for trading profits, rather
   than private benefits. This leads to new empirical predictions linking block-
   holders to microstructure, and more generally corporate finance to financial
   markets. In addition, this way of thinking gives rise to new theoretical direc-
   tions: Future corporate finance models of multiple blockholders could incorpo-
   rate more complex effects currently analyzed in asset pricing models of many
   informed traders. The present article assumes a single trading period, but in
   reality there may be multiple periods in which information may arrive and
   blockholders may trade. Trading profits, and thus incentives to acquire costly
   information, then depend not only on the quality of information but on its time-
   liness. A blockholder who receives information late may find that the price has

23 Studying asymmetric blockholders will likely require a quite different framework. In the current model (as in
   standard Kyle-type models), block size has no effect on trading behavior as the ability to trade is independent
   of one’s stake. Introducing short-sale constraints will allow block size to be relevant, but will require departures
   from normal noise distributions to obtain tractability (e.g., Edmans 2009). Moreover, a symmetric equilibrium
   is necessary to obtain closed-form solutions in the trading stage; see also Kyle (1984), Admati and Pfleiderer
   (1988), Holden and Subrahmanyam (1992), and Foster and Viswanathan (1993). The current model does contain
   an asymmetry in the case of costly information acquisition, as some blockholders may remain uninformed.




   2424
Governance Through Trading and Intervention: A Theory of Multiple Blockholders



already moved, reducing her trading profits. In addition, in the present article,
blockholders trade on information only. If blockholders are subject to liquidity
shocks (e.g., Brunnermeier and Pedersen 2005), the addition of multiple trad-
ing rounds may give incentives for other blockholders to “front-run” and sell in
advance of an anticipated forced liquidation. This may increase the potency of
governance through trading, but reduce incentives to engage in interventions
with long-run benefits.




                                                                                                                  Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
Supplementary Data
Supplementary data are available online at http://www.sfsrfs.org/addenda/.

References
Admati, A. R., and P. Pfleiderer. 2009. The “Wall Street Walk”and Shareholder Activism: Exit as a Form of
Voice. Review of Financial Studies 22:2645–85.

Admati, A., P. Pfleiderer, and J. Zechner. 1994. Large Shareholder Activism, Risk Sharing, and Financial Market
Equilibrium. Journal of Political Economy 102:1097–30.

Aghion, P., P. Bolton, and J. Tirole. 2004. Exit Options in Corporate Finance: Liquidity versus Incentives.
Review of Finance 8:327–53.

Attari, M., S. Banerjee, and T. Noe. 2006. Crushed by a Rational Stampede: Strategic Share Dumping and
Shareholder Insurrections. Journal of Financial Economics 79:181–222.

Barclay, M. J., and C. G. Holderness. 1989. Private Benefits from Control of Public Corporations. Journal of
Financial Economics 25:371–95.

       . 1991. Negotiated Block Trades and Corporate Control. Journal of Finance 46:861–78.

Bebchuk, L. 2007. The Myth of the Shareholder Franchise. Virginia Law Review 93:675–732.

Bennedsen, M., and D. Wolfenzon. 2000. The Balance of Power in Closely Held Corporations. Journal of
Financial Economics 58:113–39.

Bharath, S. T., S. Jayaraman, and V. Nagar. 2010: Exit as Governance: An Empirical Analysis. Working Paper,
Arizona State University.

Black, B. 1990. Shareholder Passivity Reexamined. Michigan Law Review 89:520–608.

Bloch, F., and U. Hege. 2003. Multiple Shareholders and Control Contests. Working Paper, Ecole
Polytechnique.

Boehmer, E., and E. Kelley. 2009. Institutional Investors and the Informational Efficiency of Prices. Review of
Financial Studies 22:3563–94.

Bolton, P., and E-L. von Thadden. 1998. Blocks, Liquidity, and Corporate Control. Journal of Finance 53:1–25.

Bond, P., I. Goldstein, and E. S. Prescott. 2010. Market-based Corrective Actions. Review of Financial Studies
23:781–820.

Brav, A., and R. Mathews. 2010. Empty Voting and the Efficiency of Corporate Governance. Journal of Financial
Economics, forthcoming.

Brockman P., and X. S. Yan. 2009. Block Ownership and Firm-specific Information. Journal of Banking and
Finance 33:308–16.

Brunnermeier, M., and L. Pedersen. 2005. Predatory Trading. Journal of Finance 60:1825–63.

Burkart, M., D. Gromb, and F. Panunzi. 1997. Large Shareholders, Monitoring, and the Value of the Firm.
Quarterly Journal of Economics 112:693–728.




                                                                                                       2425
The Review of Financial Studies / v 24 n 7 2011



Bushee, B., and T. Goodman. 2007. Which Institutional Investors Trade Based on Private Information About
Earnings and Returns? Journal of Accounting Research 45:289–321.

Calcagno, R., and F. Heider. 2008. Market Based CEO Pay, Aggregation of Information, and Short-termism in
the Stock Market. Working Paper, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam.

Chen, B., and P. L. Swan. 2010. CEO Incentives and Institutional Trader Monitoring Are Substitutes: Theory
and Evidence. Working Paper, University of New South Wales.

Chen, Q., I. Goldstein, and W. Jiang. 2007. Price Informativeness and Investment Sensitivity to Stock Price.




                                                                                                                  Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
Review of Financial Studies 20:619–50.

Chen, X., J. Harford, and K. Li. 2007. Monitoring: Which Institutions Matter? Journal of Financial Economics
86:279–305.

Demsetz, H., and K. Lehn. 1985. The Structure of Corporate Ownership: Causes and Consequences. Journal of
Political Economy 93:1155–77.

Dhillon, A., and S. Rossetto. 2009. Corporate Control and Multiple Large Shareholders. Working Paper,
University of Warwick.

Dlugosz, J., R. Fahlenbrach, P. Gompers, and A. Metrick. 2005. Large Blocks of Stock: Prevalence, Size, and
Measurement. Journal of Corporate Finance 12:594–618.

Dow, J., and G. Gorton. 1997. Stock Market Efficiency and Economic Efficiency: Is There a Connection?
Journal of Finance 52:1087–129.

Edmans, A. 2009. Blockholder Trading, Market Efficiency, and Managerial Myopia. Journal of Finance 64:
2481–513.

Faccio, M., and L. Lang. 2002. The Ultimate Ownership of Western European Corporations. Journal of Financial
Economics 65:365–95.

Fang, V., T. Noe, and S. Tice. 2009. Stock Market Liquidity and Firm Value. Journal of Financial Economics
94:150–69.

Faure-Grimaud, A., and D. Gromb. 2004. Public Trading and Private Incentives. Review of Financial Studies
17:985–1014.

Ferreira, D., M. Ferreira, and C. Raposo. 2010. Board Structure and Price Informativeness. Journal of Financial
Economics, forthcoming.

Fishman, M. J., and K. Hagerty. 1989. Disclosure Decisions by Firms and the Competition for Price Efficiency.
Journal of Finance 44:633–46.

Foster, F. D., and S. Viswanathan. 1993. The Effect of Public Information and Competition on Trading Volume
and Price Volatility. Review of Financial Studies 6:23–56.

Fulghieri, P., and D. Lukin. 2001. Information Production, Dilution Costs, and Optimal Security Design. Journal
of Financial Economics 61:3–42.

Gabaix, X., and A. Landier. 2008. Why Has CEO Pay Increased So Much? Quarterly Journal of Economics
123:49–100.

Gallagher, D., P. Gardner, and P. Swan. 2010. Institutional Swing Trades and Subsequent Firm Performance.
Working Paper, University of Sydney.

Goldstein, I., and A. Guembel. 2008. Manipulation and the Allocational Role of Prices. Review of Economic
Studies 75:133–64.

Gomes, A., and W. Novaes. 2006. Sharing of Control versus Monitoring as Corporate Governance Mechanisms.
Working Paper, Washington University in St. Louis.

Gorton, G. B., L. Huang, and Q. Kang. 2010. The Limitations of Stock Market Efficiency: Price Informativeness
and CEO Turnover. Working Paper, Yale University.




2426
Governance Through Trading and Intervention: A Theory of Multiple Blockholders



Heflin, F., and K. Shaw. 2000. Blockholder Ownership and Market Liquidity. Journal of Financial and
Quantitative Analysis 35:621–33.

Hirschman, A. 1970. Exit, Voice, and Loyalty. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

Holden, C. W., and A. Subrahmanyam. 1992. Long-lived Private Information and Imperfect Competition.
Journal of Finance 47:247–70.

Holderness, C. G. 2009. The Myth of Diffuse Ownership in the United States. Review of Financial Studies
22:1377–408.




                                                                                                                 Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
Holmstrom, B., and J. Tirole. 1993. Market Liquidity and Performance Monitoring. Journal of Political Economy
101:678–709.

Holthausen, R. W., R. W. Leftwich, and D. Mayers. 1990. Large-block Transactions, the Speed of Response,
and Temporary and Permanent Stock-price Effects. Journal of Financial Economics 26:71–95.

Kahn, C., and A. Winton. 1998. Ownership Structure, Speculation, and Shareholder Intervention. Journal of
Finance 53:99–129.

Kalay, A., and S. Pant. 2010. Time-varying Voting Rights and the Private Benefits of Control. Working Paper,
University of Utah.

Kandel, E., M. Massa, and A. Simonov. Forthcoming. Do Small Shareholders Count? Journal of Financial
Economics.

Khanna, N., and R. D. Mathews. 2010. Doing Battle with Short Sellers: The Role of Blockholders in Bear Raids.
Working Paper, Michigan State University.

Kole, S. 1997. The Complexity of Compensation Contracts. Journal of Financial Economics 43:79–104.

Konijn, S. J. J., R. Krässel, and A. Lucas. 2009. Blockholder Dispersion and Firm Value. Working Paper, Vrije
Universiteit Amsterdam.

Kyle, A. 1984. Market Structure, Information, Futures Markets, and Price Formation. In Gary G. Storey,
Andrew Schmitz, and Alexander H. Sarris, (eds.), International Agricultural Trade: Advanced Readings in
Price Formation, Market Structure, and Price Instability. Boulder, CO: Westview.

       . 1985. Continuous Auctions and Insider Trading. Econometrica 53:1315–35.

La Porta, R., F. Lopez-de-Silanes, and A. Shleifer. 1999. Corporate Ownership Around the World. Journal of
Finance 54:471–517.

Laeven, L., and R. Levine. 2007. Complex Ownership Structures and Corporate Valuations. Review of Financial
Studies 21:579–604.

Maug, E. 1998. Large Shareholders and Monitors: Is There a Tradeoff Between Liquidity and Control? Journal
of Finance 53:65–98.

       . 2002. Insider Trading Legislation and Corporate Governance. European Economic Review 46:1569–97.

Maury, B., and A. Pajuste. 2005. Multiple Large Shareholders and Firm Value. Journal of Banking and Finance
29:1813–34.

McCahery, J., Z. Sautner, and L. Starks. 2010. Behind the Scenes: The Corporate Governance Preferences of
Institutional Investors. Working Paper, University of Amsterdam.

Mello, A., and R. Repullo. 2004. Shareholder Activism Is Non-monotonic in Market Liquidity Finance Research
Letters 1:2–10.

Mikkelson, W., and M. Partch. 1985. Stock Price Effects and Costs of Secondary Distributions. Journal of
Financial Economics 14:165–94.

Mueller, H., and K. Wärneryd. 2001. Inside versus Outside Ownership: A Political Theory of the Firm. RAND
Journal of Economics 32:527–41.




                                                                                                      2427
The Review of Financial Studies / v 24 n 7 2011



Narayanan, M. P. 1985. Managerial Incentives for Short-term Results. Journal of Finance 40:1469–84.

Noe, T. 2002. Investor Activism and Financial Market Structure. Review of Financial Studies 15:289–318.

Pagano, M., and A. Röell. 1998. The Choice of Stock Ownership Structure: Agency Costs, Monitoring, and the
Decision to Go Public. Quarterly Journal of Economics 113:187–225.

Parrino, R., R. Sias, and L. Starks. 2003. Voting with Their Feet: Institutional Ownership Changes Around
Forced CEO Turnover. Journal of Financial Economics 68:3–46.




                                                                                                                 Downloaded from academic.oup.com/rfs/article/24/7/2395/1625435 by Catherine Sharp user on 19 August 2026
Rubin, A. 2007. Ownership Level, Ownership Concentration, and Liquidity. Journal of Financial Markets 10:
219–48.

Scharfstein, D., and J. Stein. 1990. Herd Behavior and Investment. American Economic Review 80:465–79.

Scholes, M. 1972. The Market for Securities: Substitution Versus Price Pressure and the Effects of Information
on Share Prices. Journal of Business 45:179–211.

Shleifer, A., and R. Vishny. 1986. Large Shareholders and Corporate Control. Journal of Political Economy
94:461–88.

Sias, R., L. Starks, and S. Titman. 2006. Changes in Institutional Ownership and Stock Returns: Assessment
and Methodology. Journal of Business 79:2869-910.

Smith, G., and P. Swan. 2008. Will the Real Monitors Please Stand Up? Institutional Investors and CEO
Compensation. Working Paper, University of New South Wales.

Stein, J. 1988. Takeover Threats and Managerial Myopia. Journal of Political Economy 46:61–80.

       . 1989. Efficient Capital Markets, Inefficient Firms: A Model of Myopic Corporate Behavior. Quarterly
Journal of Economics 104:655–69.

       . 1996. Rational Capital Budgeting in an Irrational World. Journal of Business 69:429-55.

Subrahmanyam, A., and S. Titman. 1999. The Going-public Decision and the Development of Financial
Markets. Journal of Finance 54:1045–82.

Winton, A. 1993. Limitation of Liability and the Ownership Structure of the Firm. Journal of Finance 48:
487–512.

Zwiebel, J. 1995. Block Investment and Partial Benefits of Corporate Control. Review of Economic Studies
62:161–85.




2428
