THE JOURNAL OF FINANCE • VOL. LXIV, NO. 6 • DECEMBER 2009




         Blockholder Trading, Market Efficiency,
                and Managerial Myopia

                                        ALEX EDMANS∗


                                          ABSTRACT
      This paper analyzes how blockholders can exert governance even if they cannot inter-
      vene in a firm’s operations. Blockholders have strong incentives to monitor the firm’s
      fundamental value because they can sell their stakes upon negative information. By
      trading on private information (following the “Wall Street Rule”), they cause prices
      to ref lect fundamental value rather than current earnings. This in turn encourages
      managers to invest for long-run growth rather than short-term profits. Contrary to
      the view that the U.S.’s liquid markets and transient shareholders exacerbate myopia,
      I show that they can encourage investment by impounding its effects into prices.




     The nature of competition has changed, placing a premium on investment
   in increasingly complex and intangible forms—the kinds of investment
   most penalized by the U.S. [capital allocation] system.
                                                            —Porter (1992)
THIS PAPER ANALYZES how outside blockholders can induce managers to undertake
efficient real investment through their informed trading of the firm’s shares.
By gathering information about a firm’s fundamental value and impounding it
into prices, they encourage managers to undertake investment that increases
long-run value even if it reduces interim profits. The model therefore addresses
two broad issues. First, it introduces a potential solution to managerial myopia.
Second, it demonstrates that shareholders can add significant value even if they
cannot intervene in a firm’s operations. This may explain the prevalence in the

  ∗ Alex Edmans is at the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. I am deeply grateful to
my advisors, Stewart Myers, Dirk Jenter, Gustavo Manso, and Xavier Gabaix, for their support
and guidance. I am indebted to an anonymous referee for numerous comments that significantly
improved the paper, as well as an associate editor and the editor, Cam Harvey. This paper has also
benefited from input by Prasun Agarwal; Franklin Allen; Jack Bao; Indraneel Chakraborty; Florian
Ederer; Isil Erel; Chris Evans; Carola Frydman; Itay Goldstein; Li He; Cliff Holderness; Adam
Kolasinski; Pavitra Kumar; Robert Marquez; Anna Obizhaeva; Weiyang Qiu; Robert Ready;
Michael Roberts; Steve Ross; Alan Schwartz; Jeremy Stein; Luke Taylor; Masako Ueda; Jialan
Wang; Paul Yan; and seminar participants at the 2008 Penn/NYU Conference on Law and Finance,
the 2007 WFA meetings, the 2006 CEPR European Summer Symposium in Financial Markets, the
2006 FMA doctoral tutorial, Berkeley, Boston College, Dartmouth, Duke, Maryland, MIT, North-
western, Notre Dame, NYU, UBC, UCLA, UNC, Wharton, and Yale. I acknowledge excellent re-
search assistance from Qi Liu, and travel grants from the NYSE and the MIT Graduate Student
Council. This paper was previously circulated as “Blockholders, Market Efficiency, and Managerial
Myopia.”

                                               2481
                                                                                                     15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
2482                             The Journal of FinanceR

United States of small transient blockholders, who typically lack control rights
and instead follow the “Wall Street Rule” of “voting with their feet”—selling
their stock if dissatisfied.
   Many academics and practitioners believe that myopia is a first-order prob-
lem faced by the modern firm. In the last century, firms were predominantly
capital-intensive, but nowadays competitive success increasingly depends on in-
tangible assets such as human capital and R&D capabilities (Zingales (2000)).
Building such competencies requires significant and sustained investment. In-
deed, Thurow (1993) argues that investment is an issue of national importance
that will critically determine the U.S.’s success in global competition.
   However, managers may fail to invest if they are concerned with the firm’s
short-term stock price. Because the benefits of intangible investment are only
visible in the long run, the immediate effect of such investment is to depress
earnings. Indeed, Graham, Harvey, and Rajgopal’s (2005) survey finds that
78% of executives would sacrifice long-term value to meet earnings targets.
Moreover, the recent rise in equity-based compensation1 (Murphy (2003)) and
the sensitivity of CEO turnover to the stock price (Kaplan and Minton (2006))
has likely increased managers’ myopic tendencies.
   While previous papers have focused on various causes of myopia, this paper
analyzes a solution: blockholders. A blockholder has strong incentives to gather
costly information about the firm’s fundamental value, that is, to learn whether
weak earnings result from low firm quality or desirable long-term investment.2
If the cause is low quality, the blockholder profits by selling her stake, depress-
ing the stock price. If the cause is desirable investment, she does not sell, which
attenuates the stock price decline caused by weak earnings. In both cases, the
blockholder causes stock prices to ref lect fundamental value rather than short-
term earnings. This increased market efficiency improves real efficiency: The
manager is willing to undertake investments that boost fundamental value
even if they depress short-term earnings. The Wall Street adage that the “mar-
ket sells first and asks questions later” does not apply to blockholders: Owing
to their sizable holdings, they have the incentive to ask questions first and not
automatically sell upon losses. A noted real-life example is Warren Buffett, who
typically acquires blocks in companies with significant growth opportunities.
His investment shields the firm from stock market concerns, helping it to focus
on long-term value.
   In sum, while the blockholder’s monitoring and trading is motivated by
her private desire to earn profits at the expense of liquidity investors, these
actions have real social benefits by inducing efficient investment. But why
does such monitoring and trading have to be undertaken by blockholders?
Many empirical studies use block size as a proxy for investor sophistication,

   1
     Equity compensation would not induce myopia if it had very long vesting periods. However,
vesting periods are often short in practice (Kole (1997), Johnson, Ryan, and Tian (2009)), perhaps
because very long vesting periods would subject the manager to high risk.
   2
     “Investment” can encompass any action that enhances firm value, but worsens outsiders’ per-
ceptions in the short run. “Low investment” can therefore represent accounting manipulation to
improve outsiders’ short-term perceptions. Blockholders can deter such manipulation as they can
“see through” the numbers and will sell if high earnings are not backed up by strong fundamentals.
                                                                                                      15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
        Blockholder Trading, Market Efficiency, and Managerial Myopia 2483

assuming that large investors have greater incentives to become informed (see
Rubin (2007) and Boehmer and Kelley (2009) for recent examples). Although
this concept appears intuitive, it is not delivered in standard informed trad-
ing models because an investor’s ability to trade on information is indepen-
dent of her stake. The model introduces a short-sales constraint to provide a
theoretical framework underpinning the assumed positive link between block
size and information. If short sales are prohibited (or sufficiently costly), the
only way to profit from bad news is to sell an existing position. The larger
the initial holding, the more the blockholder can sell upon negative infor-
mation, and so the greater the incentives to collect information in the first
place.
   The above result requires the ability to solve for the blockholder’s optimal
trading volume upon information, as this determines how much information
she will acquire. The Kyle (1985) model requires both normal liquidity trader
demand and normal firm value to derive informed trades in closed form. Most
corporate finance applications of the Kyle model use binary firm value and
thus cannot solve for trading volumes endogenously; they therefore must re-
strict them to exogenous amounts that are then necessarily independent of
initial holdings. This paper makes the methodological contribution of introduc-
ing exponential liquidity trader demand into a Kyle model to allow informed
trades to be derived in closed form when firm value is discrete. It may be of use
to future corporate finance applications of the Kyle model.
   The role of blockholders in this paper differs from prior models, where they
add value through direct intervention, such as forcing a restructuring or vetoing
a pet project.3 This paper shows that blockholders can improve firm value even
if they are unable to intervene (engage in “voice”) and can only trade (engage
in “exit”). This departure from the literature is empirically motivated. Block-
holders in the U.S. rarely intervene because they are typically small4 and face
significant legal and institutional barriers.5 Existing models centered on con-
trol have difficulty in explaining the role that such non-controlling blockholders


   3
     Examples include Shleifer and Vishny (1986), Burkart, Gromb, and Panunzi (1997), Pagano
and Röell (1998), Kahn and Winton (1998), Bolton and von Thadden (1998), Maug (1998, 2002),
Aghion, Bolton, and Tirole (2004), Faure-Grimaud and Gromb (2004), and Brav and Mathews
(2008).
   4
     When blockholders are defined as 5% shareholders, Holderness (2009) finds that 96% of U.S.
firms contain a blockholder. However, when the minimum ownership is defined as 20%, La Porta,
Lopez-de-Silanes, and Shleifer (1999) document that 20% (10%) of large (medium) U.S. firms con-
tain a blockholder. They estimate that a 20% stake gives effective control if the shareholder is
an insider; the threshold is likely to be higher for outside shareholders. Hence, blockholders are
prevalent in the United States, but tend to lack control rights. Holderness finds that concentrated
blockholders with board seats tend to be families. This paper focuses on financial blockholders who
typically hold smaller stakes and have less frequent board representation.
   5
     See Becht et al. (2009) and Black (1990) for details of such barriers. Armour et al. (2007)
document that U.S. shareholders seldom engage in litigation, and rarely succeed if they do; the
same is true for the proxy fight mechanism. As Lowenstein (1988 p. 91) writes: “[Institutional
investors] implicitly praise or criticize management, by buying or selling, but seldom get involved
more directly, even to the extent of a phone call. There is almost no dissent from the Wall Street
Rule.”
                                                                                                     15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
2484                             The Journal of FinanceR

play in corporate governance, and thus justifying why they are so prevalent.6
Moreover, the lack of large blockholders and consequent rarity of interven-
tion may suggest that U.S. firms are poorly governed and that policy action is
desirable. This paper offers an alternative perspective—blockholders can still
exert governance even if they lack control rights. In addition to evidence on the
barriers to intervention, there is also research on the real-life importance of
governance through trading. The survey evidence of McCahery, Sautner, and
Starks (2008) finds that institutions use “exit” more frequently than any other
governance mechanism, and Parrino, Sias, and Starks (2003) document direct
evidence of this channel.
   The analysis of different governance mechanisms (exit vs. voice) leads to
different results regarding the optimal block size for firm value and the effect
of liquidity on governance. In a number of theories of voice, a larger block is
always desirable as it increases monitoring and intervention incentives. Here,
block size has a nonmonotonic effect on firm value. Trading profits depend
not on block size per se, but on the amount sold upon bad news. If the block
becomes too large, market liquidity declines and the blockholder cannot sell
her entire stake. Because her potential trading profits are lower, she acquires
less information, so prices are less efficient. This finite optimum is consistent
with the paucity of large blockholders in the United States (La Porta, Lopez-
de-Silanes, and Shleifer (1999)). Large stakes may not only be unnecessary for
a blockholder to exert governance, but also undesirable.
   The second difference from prior research concerns the desirability of liq-
uidity. Motivated by several intervention theories, Bhide (1993) argues that
because blockholders add value through voice, and voice and exit are mutu-
ally exclusive, liquidity is harmful as it allows a shareholder to leave rather
than intervene. In this paper, the blockholder adds value through “loyalty” to a
fundamentally sound firm that suffers weak short-term earnings. Loyalty and
exit are similarly mutually exclusive and so it may seem that liquidity is again
undesirable because it allows shareholders to sell easily upon weak earnings,
causing managers to focus excessively on earnings. Indeed, Porter (1992) and
Thurow (1993) argue that the U.S.’s liquid markets deter long-run investment,
potentially endangering the U.S.’s future international competitiveness. They
advocate policies to reduce liquidity and thus create unconditionally long-run
shareholders who never sell.
   However, this paper shows that the mutual exclusivity of loyalty and exit
paradoxically leads to complementarities between them. If a blockholder has
retained her stake despite low earnings, this is a particularly positive indi-
cator of fundamental value if she could easily have sold instead. In short, the
power of loyalty relies on the threat of exit. The result that blockholders promote
long-run behavior does not stem from simply assuming that blockholders are
unconditionally long-run investors who never sell. Indeed, an investor’s loy-
alty upon bad news is uninformative if market illiquidity prevented her from

    6
      Similarly, intervention models would imply little role for holders of nonvoting shares, even
if they have large stakes. This paper shows that such investors can improve firm value by their
trading behavior.
                                                                                                     15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
        Blockholder Trading, Market Efficiency, and Managerial Myopia 2485

exiting anyway. Instead, conditional loyalty and the threat of short-term sell-
ing can, surprisingly, promote long-term investment. Far from exacerbating
myopia, the liquidity of the U.S. capital allocation system may be a strength.
This implication may explain why the above fears for the U.S.’s global competi-
tiveness have not been borne out. Consistent with the model, Fang, Noe and Tice
(2009) document a causal relationship between liquidity and firm performance,
which arises because liquidity leads to greater price efficiency.
   This result builds on Maug (1998), who overturned earlier papers arguing
that liquidity is undesirable in an intervention setting by pointing out that
they assume an exogenous block size. Maug shows that when block size is en-
dogenous, liquidity is beneficial because it encourages a larger block to form
in the first place. In the present paper, liquidity has a second benefit—it leads
to increased liquid trading by these blocks, once formed. While such trading
is harmful in an intervention framework (and so the benefits of liquidity stem
entirely from their effect on initial block size), in an exit model it is the very
mechanism through which the blockholder adds value. Hence, increasing liq-
uidity from low levels is beneficial even if block size is exogenous and does not
rise in response to greater liquidity.7 Here, liquidity is desirable not only be-
cause it leads to larger blocks (Maug’s result), but also because it leads to more
liquid trading by these blocks. This conclusion is potentially important because
disclosure requirements or regulation may restrict block size from rising in re-
sponse to liquidity (see, for example, Roe (1994)) and prevent the first benefit
from being obtained. Indeed, in the United States, ownership is fragmented
despite high liquidity, suggesting that these forces may be important. Even if
this is the case, liquidity can be valuable.
   While the paper’s main result is that blockholders can encourage investment,
the corollary is that a key cost of the U.S.’s dispersed ownership is myopia. This
leads to an additional policy implication. Previous papers argue that the main
problem with atomistic shareholders is that they lack the control rights to in-
tervene and thus allow the manager to shirk (e.g., Roe (1994)). In this case,
potential solutions to dispersed ownership are equity compensation and regu-
lations against takeover defenses. However, if the main cost is that dispersed
shareholders lack information on fundamental value, focus on current earn-
ings, and thus induce myopia, these policies exacerbate the issue. The prob-
lem with small shareholders may not be so much the “separation of ownership
from control” (Berle and Means (1932)) as the “separation of ownership from
information.”
   The paper closes with empirical implications. One set concerns stock price
effects, and is unique to a model in which blockholders trade rather than inter-
vene. While block size does not matter in standard microstructure theories, here
it is positively correlated with an investor’s private information, trading prof-
its, and price efficiency. Existing empirical studies typically use institutional
ownership as a measure of investor informativeness, but the model suggests
   7
     When block size is exogenous, the optimal liquidity is finite because too much liquidity cam-
ouf lages the blockholder’s trades and reduces price informativeness. With endogenous stakes, in-
creasing liquidity is desirable even at high levels because block size increases with liquidity to
prevent such camouf lage.
                                                                                       15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
2486                        The Journal of FinanceR

that block size may be more relevant, because concentrated stakes are nec-
essary to incentivize investors to gather information. Bushee and Goodman
(2007) and Parrino, Sias, and Starks (2003) indeed find that larger sharehold-
ers are more informed. More generally, the model suggests a shift in focus in
the way we think about blockholders that can give rise to new directions for
empirical research. Previous studies have been primarily motivated by percep-
tions of blockholders as controlling entities and thus analyze private benefits
(e.g., Barclay and Holderness (1989, 1991)), but new research questions may
be motivated by conceptualizing them as informed traders and thus analyzing
their effect on financial markets. (See Gallagher, Gardner, and Swan (2008)
and Brockman and Yan (2009) for two recent such papers.) A second set re-
lates to real effects: Blockholders should increase firm investment (Cronqvist
and Fahlenbrach (2009)), and deter earnings manipulation (Dechow, Sloan,
and Sweeney (1996), Farber (2005), Burns, Kedia, and Lipson (2008)). These
predictions distinguish the model from theories where the blockholder solves
managerial shirking or the pursuit of pet projects, rather than myopia.
   Admati and Pf leiderer (2009) also analyze a blockholder who can only en-
gage in exit rather than voice. Our papers focus on fundamentally different
agency problems: While Admati and Pf leiderer analyze effort (broadly defined
to incorporate both shirking and free cash f low problems), I study investment,
in particular, whether it is deterred by liquid trading as commonly believed.
While the effort conf lict may have been attenuated by recent increases in the
manager’s sensitivity to the stock price, such changes further exacerbate my-
opia. A second difference is that Admati and Pf leiderer assume that the block-
holder is exogenously informed, and so the level of monitoring is fixed. This
paper endogenizes costly information gathering and generates testable predic-
tions regarding the effect of block size on monitoring and trading, and in turn
market efficiency, real investment, and firm value. By contrast, Admati and
Pf leiderer focus on the nature of the agency problem and derive the interesting
result that while the blockholder always attenuates free cash f low problems,
she sometimes exacerbates shirking.
   The beneficial effect of ex post monitoring on ex ante investment is shared by
Edmans (2009a). Debt concentrates equityholders’ stakes, incentivizing them
to discover the cause of interim losses. Thus, debt can allow liquidation of an
incompetent manager who suffers short-term losses, without simultaneously
deterring skilled managers from long-term projects that risk such losses. While
Edmans (2009a) is a theory of capital structure that assumes intervention, this
paper is a theory of ownership structure in which the blockholder can only
trade.
   In Holmstrom and Tirole (1993), increased market efficiency allows prices
to more accurately ref lect managerial effort, increasing the optimal sensitivity
of pay to the stock price. In their model, monitoring is performed by atomistic
shareholders and they do not consider blockholders as potential monitors—
hence, blocks reduce price efficiency via their negative effect on liquidity. I show
that blockholders may be particularly important monitors as they have the
strongest incentives to gather the intangible information that is especially rel-
evant for long-term investment. Without blockholders, the stock price primarily
                                                                                         15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
       Blockholder Trading, Market Efficiency, and Managerial Myopia 2487



            t=1                 t=2                             t=3
            Public signal s ∈   Blockholder exerts              V is publicly revealed
            {sg, sb} released   monitoring effort µ,
                                receives signal i ∈ {ig, ib},
                                and sells b ∈ [0, α]
                                Liquidity traders demand
                                u ~ exp(λ)
                                Market maker observes d
                                = b + u and sets P =
                                E[V | d, s]

Figure 1. Timeline of the model.

ref lects publicly available current earnings. Thus, tying the manager’s pay to
the firm’s stock price can induce myopia.
    A final strand of related literature concerns insider trading by management,
which can also increase financial and real efficiency (e.g., Manne (1966)). The
blockholder is likely to be significantly more effective than the manager at
impounding information into prices for several reasons. First, managers are
constrained by insider trading laws, personal wealth (limiting purchases), or
lock-ups of stock as part of incentive packages (limiting sales). Second, the man-
ager may be conf licted because the stock price is used to evaluate him, and so
may choose not to reveal negative private information by selling shares. Third,
conf licts may also arise because the manager has control over the information
f low and investment decisions (Bernhardt, Hollifield, and Hughson (1995)). He
may release false negative (positive) information and subsequently buy (sell)
shares, or sell his shares and take the incorrect investment decision. One pa-
per that does analyze insider trading by the blockholder is Maug (2002), who
shows that legalizing such actions can induce her to exit rather than engage in
value-enhancing intervention.
    This paper is organized as follows. Section I introduces the basic model, which
links block size to financial efficiency. Section II presents the core result of the
paper by introducing managerial decisions and illustrating the impact on real
efficiency. Section III discusses empirical predictions and Section IV concludes.
The Appendix contains all proofs not in the main paper.

                   I. Blockholders and Market Efficiency
  This section analyzes the effect of block size on monitoring and stock prices.
The real consequences are studied in Section II, where managerial decisions
are introduced.
  I consider a firm with one share outstanding. A blockholder (B) owns α
units and atomistic shareholders collectively own the remaining 1 − α units.
All agents are risk-neutral and the risk-free rate is normalized to zero. There
are three periods, summarized in Figure 1. At t = 1, a public signal s ∈ {sg , sb },
such as an earnings announcement, is released. The signal is imperfectly in-
formative about the firm’s fundamental value V, which is revealed at t = 3. If
                                                                                                    15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
2488                             The Journal of FinanceR

s = sg , V = X > 0 with certainty; if s = sb , V = 0 or X with equal probability.
I refer to a firm with V = X(0) as a “high (low)-quality firm;” s = sg is a “good
signal” and s = sb is a “bad signal” (also referred to in the text as “losses” or
“low earnings”).
   At t = 2, B exerts monitoring effort µ ∈ [0, 1] at cost 12 cµ2 . Monitoring gives
B a private signal i ∈ {ig , ib } of V, the precision of which rises with µ as follows:
                                                        1 1
                            Pr(i g | X ) = Pr(ib | 0) =   + µ
                                                        2 2
                                                         1 1
                             Pr(i g | 0) = Pr(ib | X ) = − µ.
                                                         2 2
The posterior probabilities that the firm is of high quality are thus given
by
                                              1+µ
                                 Pr(X | i g ) =
                                               2
                                                                                             (1)
                                              1−µ
                                 Pr(X | ib) =     = πb.
                                               2
   If µ = 0, private information is completely uninformative and the posterior
equals the prior 12 ; if µ = 1, B knows V with certainty. There is then a round
of trading. The blockholder either demands nothing (b = 0) or sells β units
(b = −β); she sells if she receives signal ib and holds otherwise.8 I assume β ≤ α
owing to short-sales constraints because this paper’s focus is nonintervention-
ist financial blockholders such as mutual funds, pension funds, and insurance
companies, the vast majority of which are unable to sell short. The model’s
results continue to hold under nontrivial short-sales costs, as discussed in
Section I.A.
   Also at t = 2, liquidity traders demand u, where u is exponentially dis-
tributed, that is,
                                       
                                         0 if u ≤ 0
                               f (u) =
                                         λe−λu if u > 0,

where λ = ν(1−α)
              1
                  and ν ≤ 1 is a liquidity parameter. The competitive market
maker sees total demand d = b + u and sets a price P equal to the conditional
expectation of V given d and s, similar to Kyle (1985).
   The parameter ν captures factors other than free f loat (1 − α) that affect
liquidity, such as transaction costs, taxes, disclosure requirements, and other
regulations. Since the mean liquidity trade is E(u) = 1λ , we have the standard

   8
     The core analysis involves the blockholder selling or holding, because this paper’s focus is
the Wall Street Rule: the shareholder exit that is widely believed to exacerbate myopia. The re-
sults are unchanged by allowing the blockholder to buy a fixed amount regardless of her initial
stake. While the incentives to buy are unaffected by α, the ability to sell remains (nonmonoton-
ically) increasing in α. Hence, overall profits from information, and thus monitoring incentives,
remain nonmonotonically increasing in α. The results are in the Internet Appendix, available at
http://www.afajof.org/supplements.asp.
                                                                                                     15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
        Blockholder Trading, Market Efficiency, and Managerial Myopia 2489

feature that the volume of liquidity trades is increasing in the amount held by
small shareholders (1 − α), because liquidity trades often emanate from cur-
rent investors. While liquidity trades are literally modeled as purchases, all
of the model’s results continue to hold if the distribution of liquidity trades is
transposed downwards, so that the bulk of such trades are sales. Because only
current shareholders can sell the stock, there is a clear connection between
free f loat and liquidity. This linkage remains under the literal interpretation
of liquidity trades as purchases. Current shareholders are likely to be more in-
formed about a particular stock than nonshareholders, and thus more likely to
be purchasers if there is ambiguity aversion, or if nonshareholders do not know
about the stock’s existence—see Merton (1987) for a model in which investors
are restricted to buy stocks that they know about. In Bolton and von Thadden
(1998), Kahn and Winton (1998), and Holmstrom and Tirole (1993), liquidity
purchases also stem from existing owners.
   The exponential distribution of u is a methodological step that allows B’s
sale volume to be derived in closed form.9 (The key idea that block size affects
the ability to sell on negative information, and thus monitoring incentives,
does not depend on the functional form for u). Kyle (1985) achieves tractability
with normal liquidity trader demand as firm value is also normal. In most
corporate finance models featuring the Kyle model, firm value is binary and so
the informed trader’s order cannot be solved for; such papers therefore typically
restrict her trade to exogenous amounts. The exponential distribution in this
paper allows her trade to be endogenously derived as a function of block size.


A. Market Equilibrium
   If signal sg is emitted, the market maker knows that the firm is of high quality,
and so sets P = X. Because the signal is fully revealing, B has no incentives to
monitor or trade. The remainder of this section focuses on the interesting case
of s = sb , and so “| sb ” notation is omitted for brevity. Because the signal is not
fully revealing, B does monitor and trade, and the market maker tries to infer
B’s information from total order f low d.
   Lemma 1 below presents the Nash equilibrium, where B’s trading and mon-
itoring decisions are optimal given the market maker’s pricing function, and
the market maker’s pricing function earns him zero profit given B’s decisions.
I assume X ≤ 8c to ensure that effort does not exceed the maximum of one.

LEMMA 1: Upon observing sb and total demand d, the market maker sets the
following prices:
                                  
                                      P = πb X    if d ≤ 0
                                                                                              (2)
                                      P = πm X     if d > 0,


  9
    Barlevy and Veronesi (2000) also use an exponential distribution, but not to solve for trading
volumes since informed traders always trade the maximum amount in their model.
                                                                                                           15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
2490                               The Journal of FinanceR

where
                                                   1 + e−λβ + µ(1 − e−λβ )
                      πm = Pr(X | d > 0) =                                 .                        (3)
                                                        2(1 + e−λβ )
The blockholder exerts monitoring effort
                                                    βX
                                              µ=       .                                            (4)
                                                    4c
If and only if she observes signal ib , B sells
                                                 
                                              1
                                   β = min      ,α .                              (5)
                                              λ
   A full proof is in the Appendix; here I summarize the key intuition. If d ≤ 0,
the market maker knows that B has sold and thus has received ib . He therefore
sets prices according to the posterior πb = Pr(X | ib ) in equation (1). On the
other hand, d > 0 is consistent with both selling and not selling. In this case
the market maker sets prices according to the posterior πm = Pr(X | d > 0) in
equation (3). This gives rise to equation (2).
   If B receives signal ib , she wishes to sell. As in Kyle (1985), in the absence of
short-sale constraints, her optimal trade is finite ( 1λ ) as she is concerned with
excessive price impact. With short-sale constraints, B is unable to sell more
than α, her initial holding. If α ≤ 1λ , then β = α: Liquidity is sufficiently high
that B finds it optimal to sell her entire stake.

LEMMA 2: The maximum sale volume β is given by
                                                       ν
                                         β = α∗ =         .                                         (6)
                                                      ν+1
Blockholder effort µ is also maximized when α = α ∗ . Both β and µ are increasing
in α if α < α ∗ , and decreasing in α if α > α ∗ .
   For α < α ∗ , a larger initial stake raises the amount that B can sell upon nega-
tive information, and thus the incentives to become informed in the first place.
Simply put, the benefits of information are higher as B can make greater use
of it. Empirical studies frequently assume that incentives to monitor and trade
are increasing in block size.10 While intuitive, such a result is not delivered by
standard models of informed trading with no constraints (e.g., Kyle (1985) and
its variants). In these models, monitoring is independent of initial holdings: If
an investor uncovers negative information about a stock she does not own, she
can short sell. Similarly, in typical applications of the Kyle model to corporate
finance, the informed party’s trade is restricted to exogenous amounts and thus
independent of her stake. These restrictions arise either from assumed trading
or wealth constraints (e.g., in Boot and Thakor (1993) and Fulghieri and Lukin

  10
     For example, Boehmer and Kelley (2009 p. 3590) assume that “a given institution will only
acquire information on large ownership stakes.” Rubin (2007 p. 224) posits that “the probability
that a particular institution will incur the costs to do so is higher if it enjoys a comparatively large
ownership share.”
                                                                                                      15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
        Blockholder Trading, Market Efficiency, and Managerial Myopia 2491

(2001), the investor can only trade one unit), or because liquidity trades are dis-
crete, forcing the informed party to match liquidity traders’ volumes to avoid be-
ing revealed (e.g. Maug (1998), Bolton and von Thadden (1998), Faure-Grimaud
and Gromb (2004)). This paper generates a link between α and µ via the com-
bination of continuous liquidity trader demand, endogenous informed trader
demand, and short-sales constraints. It thus provides a theoretical framework
underpinning the above empirical assumption.11
   However, a second consequence of a higher stake is that it reduces liquidity.
If α > α ∗ , liquidity is sufficiently low that B chooses to sell only 1λ if she receives
signal ib . Further increases in α reduce liquidity and thus the optimal trading
volume 1λ ; because B expects to trade less on information, she has fewer incen-
tives to gather information. The optimal block size to maximize information
acquisition is therefore finite at α ∗ .
   If B can short-sell at a cost (as is the case for hedge funds), it remains the case
that increasing α from zero augments β and µ, as long as the cost is sufficiently
nontrivial that the reduction in short-sale costs that results from raising α out-
weighs the negative effect on liquidity; the results are in the Internet Appendix.
A higher initial stake increases the profits from selling on private information,
because B can costlessly unwind a long position rather than engage in costly
short-sales. Hence, B has greater incentives to acquire private information. As
in the core model, once α is sufficiently large, further increases in α lower β
and µ because the negative effect on liquidity dominates, so the relationship is
again concave.
   Equity analysts are also potential monitors and can move prices without
trading. The activity of equity analysts (and other hedge funds) is captured
in the parameter c. This is B’s cost of acquiring private information not al-
ready in the market and is therefore inversely related to the firm’s information
asymmetry. If analyst and hedge fund activity is high, most value-relevant in-
formation is already in the market price and the cost of acquiring incremental
information is large. Section II demonstrates that this reduces the blockholder’s
value added.
   It is straightforward to show that B does not sell (hold) upon receiving ig (ib ).
Selling in the absence of negative private information would drive the price
down and reduce her portfolio value at t = 2 as well as t = 3. Hence, even a
blockholder concerned with interim performance (e.g., a fund manager evalu-
ated by investors) will not sell purely on public information.


B. Market Efficiency
    This section analyzes the relationship between block size and price efficiency.
A high-quality firm has a ( 12 + 12 µ) chance of emitting signal ig , in which case
B does not sell and the price is πm X. It has a ( 12 − 12 µ) chance of emitting signal
ib , in which case B sells. If u ≤ β (which occurs with probability 1 − e−λβ ), then
  11
     In Van Nieuwerburgh and Veldkamp (2009), monitoring does increase in the investor’s holding,
but because she is risk-averse and wishes to reduce uncertainty, rather than because a larger block
expands the set of feasible trading strategies.
                                                                                                       15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
2492                              The Journal of FinanceR

d ≤ 0 and the price is πb X. Otherwise the price is πm X. Hence, the expected
price of a high-quality firm is

                                        E[P | X ] = X π X ,

where the expectation is taken over the possible realizations of i and u, and
                                                    
               1 1          1 1        −λβ          1 1
        πX =     + µ+         − µ e          πm +    − µ (1 − e−λβ )πb
               2 2          2 2                     2 2
                                 
             1       1 − e−λβ
           =      µ2          + 1   .                                        (7)
             2       1 + e−λβ
I use πX as a measure of market efficiency as it captures the closeness of ex-
pected prices to fundamental value.12 If πX = 1, price equals fundamental value
and the market is fully efficient. As πX declines, the expected price of the high-
quality firm falls from its fundamental value of X.
PROPOSITION 1 (Market Efficiency): Market efficiency πX is maximized at α = α ∗ .
It is increasing in α for α < α ∗ , and decreasing in α for α > α ∗ .
Proof: If α < α ∗ , then β = α. Differentiating equation (7) with respect to α
gives
                                             αλ −λα
                                       µ2        e
                 ∂π X     µ2 λe−λα         1 −α           1 − e−λα ∂µ
                      =              +                + µ              .                        (8)
                  ∂α    (1 + e−λα )2     (1 + e−λα )2    1 + e−λα ∂α
                                           
                            trading effect   camouflage effect     effort effect

  The “trading effect” is the direct impact of α. It is positive if and only if
α < α ∗ because an increase in α raises the amount sold by B upon negative
information. Simply put, if B trades more, her trading (or nontrading) impounds
more information into prices.
  The “camouf lage effect” operates indirectly through α decreasing liquidity.
Because liquidity camouf lages B’s trades, this effect is positive for all levels of
α, as a fall in liquidity increases her effect on prices.
  The “effort effect” operates indirectly through α affecting µ. This effect is
positive if and only if ∂µ
                         ∂α
                             > 0, that is, α < α ∗ . Increased effort leads to B receiving
a more informative signal. Her trades thus convey greater information about
V. Overall, if α < α ∗ , all three effects are positive, and so an increase in α raises
market efficiency.
  If α > α ∗ , then β = 1λ . Differentiating with respect to α gives

                                      ∂π X    1 − e−1 ∂µ
                                           =µ            .                                      (9)
                                       ∂α    1 +e ∂α
                                                   −1

                                                 effort effect


   12
      Note that the price is always efficient in the sense of equaling fundamental value conditional
upon an information set. However, when α rises, this information set is richer and so prices are
closer to (unconditional) fundamental value.
                                                                                                           15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
         Blockholder Trading, Market Efficiency, and Managerial Myopia 2493

   From Lemma 2, the trading effect is negative, as liquidity is sufficiently low
that B only sells 1λ , which is decreasing in α. The negative trading effect exactly
cancels out the positive camouf lage effect. This leaves the effort effect, which
is negative from Lemma 2. Q.E.D.

   Even considering only the benefits of blockholders and ignoring their costs,
the optimal block size for market efficiency is a finite level, α ∗ . (Section II
shows that the α that maximizes market efficiency also optimizes firm value.)
This result contrasts with some intervention models such as Shleifer and
Vishny (1986), Maug (1998), and Kahn and Winton (1998), where firm value is
monotonically increasing in block size.13 In this model, it is not block size per
se that matters, but the associated optimal trading volume: Prices are a func-
tion not of α, but of min( 1λ , α). A large block increases information revelation
only to the extent that there is sufficient market liquidity to allow it to be sold
entirely. Put differently, the fact that B has not exited is less of a positive boost
to the stock price if exit was difficult in the first place. This finite optimum is
consistent with the finding that, while blockholders are common in the United
States (Holderness (2009)), substantial blockholders are rare (La Porta, Lopez-
de-Silanes, and Shleifer (1999)).
   In reality, other market participants may be able to observe blockholders’
sales with a lag by studying Section 13 filings. This would strengthen B’s impact
on market efficiency. Because sales are only observed with a lag, B’s profits from
informed selling are unchanged. However, her price impact is greater: After the
filing is made, the price moves even closer to fundamental value because the
market can now observe the trade directly.


                  II. Blockholders and Long-Term Investment
   The previous section links blockholders to increased financial market effi-
ciency. This section demonstrates that the latter can in turn augment real effi-
ciency by addressing the potentially important myopia issue. I thus illustrate a
social benefit for information gathering that is motivated purely by the private
desire to profit from informed trading.
   The model is extended to allow for managerial decisions. The risk-neutral14
manager (M) places weight ω on the t = 2 stock price and 1 − ω on the t =
3 firm value, where 0 < ω < 1. Because this paper focuses on the solution to
myopia rather than its cause, the concern with the current stock price (ω > 0)
is taken as exogenous. This is a standard assumption in the literature and can

   13
      Holmstrom and Tirole (1993) and Bolton and von Thadden (1998) also derive a nonmonotonic
effect of block size. In their models, market efficiency is maximized with a zero block. They de-
rive finite optimal block sizes as they trade off market efficiency against, respectively, monitoring
costs and intervention. In this paper, the optimal block size is finite even focusing on market ef-
ficiency alone. Burkart, Gromb, and Panunzi (1997) derive a finite optimal block size as too large
a block can erode managerial initiative. In Pagano and Röell (1998), too large a block can lead to
overmonitoring.
   14
      Introducing managerial risk aversion would strengthen the results because the blockholder
reduces the variance in the price of a high-quality firm that emits sb , as well as increasing its mean.
                                                                                                            15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
2494                               The Journal of FinanceR

be motivated by a number of underlying factors, such as takeover threat (Stein
(1988)), concern for managerial reputation (Narayanan (1985), Scharfstein and
Stein (1990)), or the manager expecting to sell his own shares at t = 2 (Stein
(1989)).15
  At t = 0, the manager of a high-quality firm can invest in a long-term project
that unambiguously increases fundamental value, but risks low interim earn-
ings. The most natural example is intangible investment that is expensed and
thus difficult to distinguish from losses made by a low-quality firm. Let θ ∈ [0, 1]
denote the amount of investment. Investment of θ boosts the firm’s t = 3 value
to V = X + gθ, but risks emitting sb at t = 1 with probability θ 2 (otherwise, sg is
emitted). The parameter g measures the productivity of the investment project.
The choice of θ does not involve a personal utility cost to M: There is no stan-
dard effort conf lict. The availability of this investment project is not known to
the market maker nor to B, to emphasize the fact that B can induce M to ex-
ploit growth opportunities even if she is unaware of their existence (in contrast
with intervention models). In reality, new investment opportunities that were
previously unforeseen frequently become available to managers. The Internet
Appendix shows that the results continue to hold if θ is anticipated.
  At t = 0, the manager of a high-quality firm chooses θ to maximize

                        (1 − ω)(X + g θ ) + ωθ 2 π X X + ω(1 − θ 2 )X .                            (10)

  The first term is firm value, multiplied by its weight in the objective function.
The stock price is X if sg is emitted, which occurs with probability (1 − θ 2 ), else
πX X. This gives rise to the second and third terms.
LEMMA 3: The manager chooses investment level θ given by
                                                
                                   1−ω g
                     θ = min                  ,1 .                                                 (11)
                               2ωX 1 − π X

If θ < 1, it is increasing in g and πX , and decreasing in X and ω.
   The amount of long-term investment is naturally increasing in its productiv-
ity g, and decreasing with the cost of emitting sb . The latter is positively related
to the difference in value between high- and low-quality firms X, and M’s con-
cern for the current stock price ω. Note that myopia is rational: The stock price
falls upon sb because it may have been emitted by a low-quality firm; given the
risk of this decline, M optimally sets θ below its first-best level of one.
   Investment increases with πX because greater market efficiency means that
prices more closely ref lect fundamental value. Because πX in turn depends on
α, investment depends on block size. Indeed, taking first-order conditions of
equation (11) with respect to α and calculating cross-partials with respect to
g, c, and ω leads to Proposition 2 below, the main result of the paper.

  15
    Even if the manager’s sole objective is to maximize long-run shareholder value, he will care
about the stock price as it affects the terms at which the firm can raise equity at t = 2 (Stein (1996)).
                                                                                             15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
       Blockholder Trading, Market Efficiency, and Managerial Myopia 2495

                                                                              −1
PROPOSITION 2 (Investment): Define X 1 = (1−ω)    ω
                                                     g
                                                         and X 2 = (1−ω)
                                                                       ω
                                                                         g 1+e
                                                                            2e−1
                                                                                 . For all
X, investment θ is weakly increasing in πX . It is therefore maximized at α = α ∗ ,
weakly increasing in α for α < α ∗ , and weakly decreasing in α if α > α ∗ . If
X ≥ X2 , these directional effects are strict and θ is uniquely maximized at α = α ∗ .
If X ≤ X1 , M invests efficiently (θ = 1) regardless of πX and thus α.
                                                              ∂θ
   The magnitude of the block-sensitivity of investment | ∂α     | is weakly increasing
                                                     ∂ θ
                                                       2
                                                                 ∂2θ              ∂2θ
in g and weakly decreasing in c and ω, that is, ∂α∂ g ≥ 0, ∂α∂c       ≤ 0, and ∂α∂ω   ≤0
                   ∂ θ        ∂ θ            ∂ θ
for α < α ∗ and ∂α∂                              ≥ 0 for α > α ∗ .
                   2          2               2

                      g
                        ≤ 0, ∂α∂c ≥ 0, and ∂α∂ω
   The central result of this paper is that blockholders can add value, even
in the absence of an underlying effort conf lict and the ability to intervene.
By engaging in informed trading to maximize their own speculative profit,
they can promote long-term investment. For α < α ∗ , increasing block size raises
market efficiency πX (Proposition 1) and thus makes the price more closely
ref lect fundamental value. From equation (11), a higher πX in turn augments
real efficiency: The manager is more willing to undertake positive-NPV long-
term investment projects that risk interim turbulence because the stock price
fall upon short-term losses is attenuated.
   While Proposition 2 shows that sizable shareholders promote investment,
the corollary is that a key cost of dispersed ownership is that it magnifies
myopia. This cost contrasts with the shirking traditionally focused upon (e.g.,
Roe (1994)) and has different policy implications. If effort is the main problem,
equity compensation and a more active takeover market are potential solutions.
However, if myopia is the principal issue, such measures make it worse.
                                                             ∂θ
   The beneficial effect of a blockholder on investment, ∂α     , is decreasing in c and
thus increasing in information asymmetry. Where information asymmetry is
high, there is more information for B to impound into prices so she has a greater
incremental effect. The blockholder’s impact is also increasing in the profitabil-
                                        ∂2θ
ity of investment g up to a point ( ∂α∂    g
                                             > 0): If the investment is unattractive,
it will be little exploited even if B makes prices relatively efficient. However, if
                                                       ∂θ
g is sufficiently high that X ≤ X1 , θ = 1 ∀α and ∂α      = 0: The investment oppor-
tunity is sufficiently attractive that M pursues it fully even in the absence of
a blockholder. In a similar vein, the impact of higher block size is greatest for
moderate levels of ω. If M is greatly concerned with interim performance, he
                                                                       ∂2θ
will still underinvest even in the presence of a blockholder ( ∂α∂ω        < 0). On the
other hand, if the stock price is a minor concern (X ≤ X1 ), M invests efficiently
in the first place.

A. Does Liquidity Deter Investment?
   The previous section studies the optimal α for firm value, holding liquidity
constant. This section now examines the effect of liquidity ν on investment. I
first assume that α is exogenous and show that increasing ν boosts investment
at low levels, but reduces it at high levels. Next, I allow α to be endogenously
chosen by the blockholder in response to liquidity, in order to maximize her
total payoff. In this case, increasing ν always boosts investment.
                                                                                                        15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
2496                              The Journal of FinanceR

                                 A.1. Exogenous Block Size
PROPOSITION 3 (Liquidity, Exogenous Block Size): Holding α constant, market
                                                  α
efficiency and investment are maximized at ν ∗ = 1−α . They are increasing (de-
                            ∗
creasing) in ν for ν < (>) ν .

   From Proposition 2, investment is increasing in market efficiency. Market
efficiency in turn depends on two factors: how much information B gathers,
and the extent to which this information is incorporated into prices. While liq-
uidity increases information gathering by augmenting trading profits, it also
camouf lages B’s trades and reduces their price impact. For low (high) levels of
efficiency, the first (second) effect dominates. If there is zero liquidity, B does
not trade or monitor; if liquidity is infinite, she does not affect prices. The non-
monotonic effect of liquidity contrasts with previous papers such as Holmstrom
and Tirole (1993) and Faure-Grimaud and Gromb (2004), where augmenting
liquidity always increases stock price informativeness. There is no camouf lage
effect in those papers as the informed investor’s trades are unbounded; here,
B’s maximum sale is capped at α due to short-sales constraints.16
   As summarized by Bhide (1993), liquidity is undesirable in most previous
papers, where block size is exogenous and the blockholder chooses between in-
tervention and intentional exit.17 In such papers, the blockholder adds value
through voice; because voice and exit are mutually exclusive, liquidity hinders
the former by facilitating the latter. Here, the blockholder adds value by re-
taining her stake through interim turbulence, increasing investment ex ante.
Because loyalty and exit are similarly mutually exclusive, it might seem that
liquidity is again undesirable as it encourages exit and thus deters loyalty.
This is indeed the conventional wisdom: Liquidity allows shareholders to sell
upon weak earnings, and thus makes managers even more concerned with earn-
ings. A number of commentators (e.g., Porter (1992), Thurow (1993)) argue that
the U.S.’s liquid capital markets hinder long-term investment, and hence have
called for policy intervention to reduce liquidity.
   This paper shows that, even holding α exogenous, increasing liquidity from
low levels can promote investment, and thus has very different policy impli-
cations. Although loyalty and exit are indeed mutually exclusive, this leads
to complementarities between them. The power of loyalty relies on the threat
of exit. By making exit more feasible, increased liquidity renders loyalty more
meaningful. In this model, the blockholder does not promote investment simply
by being a “long-term” investor who never sells; by contrast it is the possibility

   16
      Some previous blockholder models (where α is not chosen by B) also conclude liquidity is
not unambiguously desirable. In Kahn and Winton (1998), liquidity has no effect, rather than a
nonmonotonic effect. Bolton and von Thadden (1998) do feature an optimal level of liquidity. This
arises because greater liquidity means a lower stake: In their paper, liquidity is (1 − α), so higher
liquidity can only be achieved by a lower α, which reduces intervention and thus firm value. In this
paper, liquidity is ν(1 − α), where ν captures factors that affect liquidity unrelated to free float.
The model shows that there is an optimal ν, even if α is constant.
   17
      Faure-Grimaud and Gromb (2004) demonstrate that liquidity encourages intervention as it
allows the stock price to ref lect these value gains and thus the blockholder to earn a return if she
has to exit unexpectedly, due to a liquidity shock. In their model, exit is not intentional.
                                                                                                           15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
         Blockholder Trading, Market Efficiency, and Managerial Myopia 2497

of selling in the short-run that encourages the manager to make long-term de-
cisions. Indeed, if market illiquidity compelled the blockholder always to hold
for the long run, she has no effect on stock prices and investment. The fact that
she has not sold upon bad news is uninformative if she was unable to sell in
the first place.
   This result marks an important distinction from intervention models. If the
blockholder has no control rights, allowing her to sell in the short term is benefi-
cial for firm value as it can promote investment. By contrast, if the blockholder
is interventionist, the possibility of short-term selling may induce her to step
in and force the manager to undertake myopic decisions. Therefore, not only
is it unnecessary for blockholders to have control rights in order to exert gov-
ernance, but it may also be undesirable: To the extent that blockholders have
short-term considerations, they may add more value to the firm if they lack
control rights.
   A short-term blockholder without control rights might try to induce myopia
by threatening to punish the manager by selling her stake if earnings are low
(because of investment). However, such a threat is not credible as it is dynami-
cally inconsistent: Once the firm announces low earnings, they are immediately
incorporated into the stock price, and so the blockholder cannot profit by selling.
Opponents of liquidity argue that it allows shareholders to sell upon interim
losses, but this view lacks a theoretical framework to explain why investors
would sell upon weak earnings. In an efficient market, the stock price reacts
immediately to public information such as low earnings, removing the incentive
to exit. Since investors can only profit by trading on private information, trading
is desirable as it impounds such information into the stock price—particularly
if the trader has a sizable stake and so is likely to have engaged in fundamental
analysis. Indeed, Yan and Zhang (2009) show empirically that investors who
trade frequently are better informed than those who rarely trade. Moreover,
the stocks that they own do not exhibit long-run reversals, which is inconsis-
tent with the view that they encourage short-termism. The frequent trading
observed in the United States may thus be a positive sign, as it suggests that
information is being impounded into prices.

                                 A.2. Endogenous Block Size
   Thus far, the analysis has focused on the normative issue of the block size
that maximizes firm value, α ∗ . I now turn to the positive question of which
block size is most likely to be observed empirically. While the firm may be able
to inf luence α temporarily (e.g., by privately placing equity with a blockholder),
B can trade away from this initial stake. The only initial block size that is robust
to re-trade is the private optimum, αP∗ , that maximizes B’s trading profits net
of monitoring costs. This would also be the block size that B would choose if she
bought shares at t = 0 and her purchase was unobserved.18 (After the purchase,
α becomes publicly known through Section 13 filings.)
   18
      In Kyle and Vila (1991), the blockholder camouflages her purchase by trading with liquidity
investors. In their model, this leads to an additional benefit of liquidity—it facilitates initial block
acquisition.
                                                                                                             15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
2498                                The Journal of FinanceR

  I now characterize this private optimum. If B owns α, her expected gross
trading profits are given by
                                            1
                              (α) = Pr (sb) βe−λβ X (πm − πb) .
                                            2
The first term is the probability that sb is emitted19 and the second is the
probability that B receives signal ib , in which case she sells β. With probability
e−λβ , u > β and so B’s information is not revealed to the market; she earns
X(πm − πb ) per unit. Her expected monitoring costs are given by

                                                          β2 X 2
                                       (α) = Pr (sb)            ,
                                                           32c
and so her objective function is
                                                                            
                                           Pr (sb) X 2 2          e−λβ     1
                       (α) − (α) =                  β                  −     .                    (12)
                                               8c               1 + e−λβ   4
  Proposition 4 below states that both αP∗ and θ are monotonically increasing
in ν.
PROPOSITION 4 (Liquidity, Endogenous Block Size): The privately optimal block
size αP∗ is strictly less than the firm value optimum α ∗ , and monotonically in-
creasing in liquidity ν. Allowing for the endogeneity of block size, investment θ
is monotonically increasing in ν.

   Two forces reduce αP∗ below α ∗ . First, a larger block size augments monitoring
costs, which the blockholder bears but are absent from the firm’s objective func-
tion. Second, a larger block reduces liquidity and thus trading profits, which are
also absent from the firm’s objective function. By contrast, a decrease in liquid-
ity has a direct positive effect on firm value through weakening the camouf lage
effect.
   When α is exogenous, investment is concave in liquidity: Too high liquid-
ity camouf lages B’s trade, which is capped at α. When α is endogenous, the
camouf lage effect is attenuated because α rises with liquidity—higher ν allows
B to trade more, and thus she chooses a higher block. Hence, investment is
now monotonically increasing in liquidity. This result echoes Maug (1998), who
also shows that liquidity is always desirable when α is endogenous. However,
our results for exogenous α are different. In Maug (1998), if α is exogenously
high20 , augmenting liquidity reduces firm value (even if liquidity is currently
low), and so the benefits of liquidity operate entirely through its effect on initial

    19
       If q is the proportion of high-quality firms in the economy and r is the probability that a
high-quality firm emits sb , then Pr(sb ) = 1 − q + qr. Because Pr(X | sb ) = 1−q+qr
                                                                                qr
                                                                                     = 12 , r = 1−q
                                                                                                 q
                                                                                                    and so
Pr(sb ) = 2 − 2q.
    20
       In Maug (1998), liquidity is undesirable if α is exogenous and exceeds cM /(H − L), where cM
is the cost of intervention, and H − L is the gain in firm value from intervening. This condition is
independent of liquidity, and so if α is sufficiently high, raising liquidity can be harmful even if it
is initially low. In this paper, raising liquidity from low levels is always beneficial.
                                                                                        15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
       Blockholder Trading, Market Efficiency, and Managerial Myopia 2499
                                                                                  α
block formation. In this paper, increasing liquidity from low levels (if ν < 1−α    )
unambiguously increases firm value, even if α is exogenous.
   In sum, there are two effects of greater liquidity. First, as Maug (1998) shows,
it leads to larger blocks. Second, it induces increased liquid trading by these
blocks. In Maug’s model, when α is exogenously high, so liquidity only leads to
liquid trading, increasing ν is undesirable because it deters blockholder inter-
vention. By contrast, as discussed in Section II.A.1, in this paper liquid trading
alone can be beneficial. Hence, liquidity has benefits other than its positive ef-
fect on initial block size first shown by Maug. The key to this result is that liquid
trading is the very mechanism through which the blockholder adds value, so it
is not achieved in intervention models.
   The result that liquidity can be desirable even when α is exogenous is po-
tentially important because legal or institutional factors may deter B from
endogenously changing α in response to greater liquidity, and thus the first
benefit from being obtained (see, for example, Roe (1994)). For example, certain
shareholders choose to hold fewer than 5% of a firm’s shares to avoid triggering
a Section 13(d) filing, or hold fewer than 10% to avoid being classified as an
insider. In the United States, ownership is fragmented despite high liquidity,
suggesting that these forces may be important. This paper shows that liquidity
can be desirable even if it does not lead to Maug’s advantage of more concen-
trated ownership.


B. Further Applications
  In the general model, θ is any action that boosts fundamental value but risks
emitting sb . Thus far, θ has been interpreted as intangible investment and sb
as short-term losses, but there are many additional applications. Signal sb is
any observable characteristic that reduces outsiders’ assessment of firm value
because it is also consistent with a low-quality firm. Therefore, θ can represent
fully observable investment for which the motive or quality is unknown. The
fundamental problem with investment is that the associated expenditures are
difficult to interpret, even if they are fully visible. While R&D can be reported
separately on the income statement and atomistic shareholders can costlessly
observe it, they do not know whether a rise in R&D results from managerial
excess (bad news about agency costs), the need to compensate for failed past
R&D efforts (bad news about operating costs), or efficient exploitation of new
growth opportunities (good news). Upon observing significant investment for
which the motive is unclear, B will gather information and trade accordingly.
  Low θ can also represent the pursuit of myopic actions that temporarily
boost outsiders’ perceptions, such as accounting manipulation, fraud, or “milk-
ing” customer reputation through lowering product or service quality. Johnson,
Ryan, and Tian (2009) document a significant correlation between corporate
fraud and unrestricted stock compensation, and Peng and Röell (2008) find
that vested options encourage executives to manipulate earnings. Because the
manager can sell unrestricted stock and exercise vested options immediately,
such compensation increases ω and thus reduces θ . Allowing the manager of a
low-quality firm to undertake a value-destructive action that gives a probability
                                                                                      15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
2500                        The Journal of FinanceR

of yielding sg (so that sg is also imperfectly informative) would reinforce the re-
sults of the core model. The presence of a blockholder reduces the manager’s
ability to deceive the market about his firm’s quality, even in the short run.


                         III. Empirical Implications
   This paper’s broad objective is to demonstrate that blockholders can add value
even if they are unable to intervene, which potentially explains the prevalence
of small blockholders in the United States. While the model also generates a
number of more specific empirical implications, it must be stressed that there
are significant challenges in testing them. First, the key variable (block size) is
endogenous, as shown in Section II.A.2. Therefore, it is insufficient simply to
document significant correlations between block size and an outcome variable.
To show that blockholders have the effects predicted in the model, it is necessary
to identify sources of exogenous variation in block size. Second, empirical tests
will need to take into account the model’s specific setting, for example, exclude
inside blockholders and blockholders who rarely trade on information (such as
families or index funds), and focus on situations where short-sales costs are
nontrivial.
   The implications are divided into three broad themes: the effect of block-
holders on financial markets, on firm behavior, and on firm value. I commence
with the first category. In this model, blockholders exert governance by being
informed traders, which in turn leads to four predictions—they have superior
information; their trades impound information into market prices; they earn
trading profits; and their presence increases market efficiency. Moreover, the
magnitude of these effects should be concave in block size. These predictions are
unique to a framework where blockholders add value through trading, rather
than intervention, and where information acquisition depends endogenously
on block size. In standard models of informed trading (e.g., Kyle (1985)), block
size has no effect on information acquisition incentives. Blockholders thus gen-
erate no excess returns, and their sales are no more informative than any other
investor’s trades. Owing to the short-sales constraint introduced by this pa-
per, private information is increasing in block size (up to a point). Bushee
and Goodman (2007) find that the private information content of an institu-
tional investor’s trade is indeed increasing in her stake, and Hef lin and Shaw
(2000) and Rubin (2007) document that ownership concentration depresses liq-
uidity as other market participants fear informed trading losses. More gen-
erally, the paper suggests that ownership concentration may be a more accu-
rate measure of investor informedness than total institutional ownership. The
latter plausibly measures the potential to obtain information (because institu-
tions have the expertise to conduct fundamental analysis), but concentrated
stakes are necessary to incentivize them to undertake such analysis. If institu-
tional ownership is high but dispersed, shareholders may not bear the costs of
monitoring.
   The second prediction is that, owing to blockholders’ superior information,
their sales should convey negative news and depress the stock price (un-
less these sales are motivated by noninformational reasons, considered later).
                                                                                                          15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
         Blockholder Trading, Market Efficiency, and Managerial Myopia 2501

Scholes (1972) and Mikkelson and Partch (1985) show that the negative stock
price reaction to secondary block distributions is due to information, rather
than a sudden increase in supply or a reduction in expected blockholder
monitoring. Mikkelson and Partch (1985) further find that the negative price
impact is increasing in the size of the block sold but not the blockholders’
initial stake. This result supports the model’s prediction that it is the amount
traded that matters, not α per se.21 Sias, Starks, and Titman (2006) show that
the positive correlation between institutional ownership changes and stock
returns is causal, rather than institutions predicting future returns, or follow-
ing short-term momentum strategies and responding to past returns. Moreover,
they demonstrate that the price changes result from information, rather than
liquidity or supply effects. All of these papers therefore provide additional sup-
port for the first prediction, that blockholders have superior information.
   Although blockholders move prices, the third prediction is that they still earn
trading profits as the stock price is only partially revealing. Indeed, Parrino,
Sias, and Starks (2003) show that blockholders sell in advance of forced CEO
turnover (a sign of low fundamental value), and that long-horizon returns are
negative after such sales. Institutions with larger positions sell to a greater
degree, implying they are better informed. Chen, Harford, and Li (2007) find
that large shareholders sell in advance of value-destructive mergers. Gallagher,
Gardner, and Swan (2008) demonstrate that frequent trading by blockholders
is profitable. Again, these papers also provide support for the first prediction
of superior information.
   The fourth prediction is generated by Proposition 1, which predicts that price
efficiency is concave in block size. Unlike the second prediction, this impli-
cation concerns the mere presence of blockholders rather than their actual
trades. Brockman and Yan (2009) find that stocks with higher block ownership
contain greater firm-specific information, as evidenced by a higher probabil-
ity of informed trading, higher idiosyncratic volatility, and low synchronicity
with the market. Also consistent with the model, these effects do not exist for
blockholders who are employee share ownership plans (ESOPs), which likely
do not trade on information. Amihud and Li (2006) find that the price reac-
tion to dividends is decreasing in institutional ownership (which is typically
highly correlated with blockholdings); their interpretation is that institutional
investors have already gathered and traded upon the information that would
be conveyed by the dividend change. Event-drift is another measure of price
efficiency: Bartov, Radhakrishnan, and Krinsky (2000) find that post-earnings
announcement drift is lower in the presence of greater institutional ownership,
which is consistent with the view that institutions impound earnings informa-
tion faster into prices. Such correlations need not imply causation; inefficient
prices could attract blockholders as the potential for trading profits is higher.
Boehmer and Kelley (2009) document a causal positive relationship between
institutional ownership and price efficiency. Both institutional trading and the

   21
      Block size per se would matter if blockholders’ superior information arises because their control
rights grant them preferential access to information. In this paper, superior information arises from
greater incentives to gather it, which depend on the expected amount traded.
                                                                                                 15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
2502                            The Journal of FinanceR

level of institutional holdings (in the absence of trading) are associated with
efficiency. This result is consistent with the model because blockholders can
increase price efficiency either by trading on bad news, or not trading on good
news.
   The second category of predictions concerns the effect of blockholders on firm
behavior, and are more challenging to test. Proposition 2 predicts that invest-
ment is concave in block size. The primary interpretation of θ is intangible in-
vestment, which presents empirical difficulties. Blockholders are particularly
valuable in promoting unobservable investment, but such investment will also
be invisible to the empiricist. A potential indirect measure is Tobin’s q, which
measures the capitalized value of growth opportunities. Moreover, as explained
in Section II.B, θ can also represent observable investment. While the total
quantity of R&D and capital expenditure can be verifiably communicated in
financial statements, its quality cannot be. Although CEOs can disclose the
amount of investment, they still perceive strong disincentives to invest (Gra-
ham, Harvey, and Rajgopal (2005)) because atomistic shareholders cannot dis-
tinguish productive investment from wasteful expenditure. Even if the produc-
tivity of investment is observable, it may not be incorporated by the market if it
is intangible, as shown by Edmans (2009b). Indeed, Lee and O’Neill (2003) and
Baysinger, Kosnik, and Turk (1991) find a positive correlation between own-
ership concentration and R&D. While R&D is an input measure, patents are
an output measure and thus more closely related to the quality of investment.
Lee (2005) finds a positive correlation between ownership concentration and
patents in the United States. Atanassov (2008) shows that blockholders reduce
the negative impact of antitakeover legislation on patent citations.22 By con-
trast, Anderson, Duru, and Reeb (2009) find that founder and heir blockholders,
who unlikely to engage in exit, are associated with lower R&D.
   However, α is endogenous and may itself be determined by R&D, or a third
unobservable variable may have a causal effect on both variables. For example,
a firm with high R&D may also have significant uncertainty, increasing the
potential for informed trading profits and attracting blockholders. Thus, the
above cross-sectional correlations can only be interpreted as tentative support
for the model. Because the empirically chosen α is likely to be the one chosen
by the blockholder, appropriate instruments will be those that shift the pri-
vate optimum but are unrelated to R&D. Examples include a negative liquidity
shock, a sudden increase in surplus cash (from the sale of other holdings or in-
vestor inf lows), temporary stock underpricing, a change in management at the
blockholder, or a change in regulation. Cronqvist and Fahlenbrach (2009) use a
time-series approach, tracking the effect of changes in block ownership within
a firm. They find that the appearance of certain blockholders in a corporation
subsequently leads to a significant increase in investment. One potential argu-
ment against their causal interpretation is that blockholders face substantial

  22
     Hansen and Hill (1991), Bushee (1998), and Wahal and McConnell (2000) show a positive
association between R&D and institutional ownership; the latter is typically highly correlated
with blockholdings. Bushee also finds that myopia is driven by momentum investors who trade on
current earnings and have small holdings.
                                                                                       15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
       Blockholder Trading, Market Efficiency, and Managerial Myopia 2503

barriers to intervention (as stated in the introduction), rendering it difficult for
them to actively change investment policy. This paper shows that causation is
possible without intervention: The arrival of the blockholder allows the man-
ager to pursue investment projects that he previously avoided owing to fears of
interim turbulence. Becker, Cronqvist and Fahlenbrach (2008) use the density
of wealthy individuals near a firm’s headquarters as a geographic instrument
to identify α.
   Section II.B notes that low θ can also be interpreted as the pursuit of actions
that reduce value but improve investors’ short-term perceptions of the firm,
such as accounting manipulation. Blockholders will “see through” such actions
and thus deter them. Burns, Kedia, and Lipson (2008) find that ownership con-
centration is correlated with fewer and less severe financial restatements. By
contrast, diversified institutions are positively associated with restatements,
likely because they trade on public earnings rather than study fundamental
value. Dechow, Sloan, and Sweeney (1996) and Farber (2005) find that firms
identified by the SEC as fraudulently manipulating earnings have lower block-
holdings. Again, such cross-sectional correlations can only be interpreted as
weak support of the model because earnings manipulation may deter block-
holders. A definitive test of this prediction requires an instrument for block
size.
   Finally, I turn to the predicted relationship between block size and firm value.
If block size is always at the firm value optimum, there should be no relationship
(as noted by Demsetz and Lehn (1985) in the context of managerial ownership
and firm value). However, as discussed earlier, the empirically observed block
size will likely differ from the firm value optimum, thus generating the cross-
sectional prediction that firm value is concave in the stake held by an outside
blockholder. While other papers show that too large a block can be inefficient,
in most of these papers the inefficiencies arise from the loss of private benefits
(Pagano and Röell (1998)) or underdiversification, which do not affect the stock
price. Therefore, these papers would not generate this prediction. However,
Burkart, Gromb, and Panunzi (1997) do share the prediction that market value
is concave in block size because too large a block reduces managerial initiative.
   The time-series analog of the above prediction is that unanticipated block in-
creases (decreases) in block size should generate positive (negative) event study
reactions when initial block size is low, but the effects are reversed when ini-
tial block size is high. Changes in block size may represent exogenous changes
to the private optimum (e.g., liquidity shocks), which move it closer to or fur-
ther from the firm value optimum. Moreover, the absolute magnitude of these
changes should be increasing in information asymmetry and concave in growth
opportunities. Models where firm value is monotonically increasing in block
size would predict that increases in block size would always have a positive
effect.
   Testing this prediction requires identifying changes in block size not moti-
vated by information. (As noted earlier, information-based trades should move
prices in the same direction as the order, regardless of initial block size.) Wruck
(1989) therefore focuses on private sales of equity: Because the purchaser is
buying a large stake, he will undertake extensive due diligence to ensure he
                                                                                                       15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
2504                              The Journal of FinanceR

is not trading against unreleased information. Wruck finds that increases in
ownership concentration lead to increases (decreases) in firm value for low
(moderate) levels of initial concentration, consistent with this paper (and also
with Burkart, Gromb, and Panunzi (1997)).


                                       IV. Conclusion
   The traditional view of corporate governance is that it is exerted through di-
rect intervention in a firm’s operations. Under such a view, concentrated share-
holders are desirable as they have both the incentives and control rights to
intervene. However, the dominant shareholding structure in the United States
is one of small blockholders. Compounded with substantial legal and institu-
tional impediments to intervention, it might appear that U.S. firms are poorly
governed and their blockholders play a limited role.
   This paper offers a different perspective. It shows that blockholders can sig-
nificantly enhance firm value even if they lack control rights. By gathering
and trading on intangible information, they cause prices to ref lect fundamen-
tal value rather than current earnings. This can encourage managers to under-
take long-term investment—arguably the primary challenge facing the modern
firm.
   In the 1980s and early 1990s, many commentators predicted that the U.S.
economy would be surpassed by Japan, particularly in R&D-intensive indus-
tries, arguing that the U.S.’s liquid capital markets are a deterrent to invest-
ment. This paper shows that short-term trading may in fact support long-term
investment, as it impounds its effects into stock prices. Thus, the U.S. capital
allocation system may be significantly more investment-friendly than widely
believed, potentially explaining why the above fears have not materialized.
   While the core model focuses on the effect of blockholders on myopia, the
trading mechanism in the paper can attenuate many other agency problems,
such as shirking (see, for example, Admati and Pf leiderer (2009) and Edmans
and Manso (2009)). The model can thus reconcile evidence on blockholders’
low ability to intervene (Black (1990), La Porta, Lopez-de-Silanes, and Shleifer
(1999), and Becht et al. (2009)) with studies that show that blockholders affect
corporate decisions.23 The model can also be extended to demonstrate how any
agent that gathers information about fundamental value and impounds it into
prices can improve managers’ ex ante decisions and thus real efficiency. This
implies a social benefit of short-sellers (such as hedge funds) and equity analysts
(see also Knyazeva (2009)), although these actors also reduce the incremental
role for blockholders.
   More generally, this paper suggests a new way of thinking about the gov-
ernance role of blockholders, giving rise to a number of potential avenues for

   23
      See, for example, Chen, Harford, and Li (2007) on the beneficial effect of institutions on M&A
decisions, and Cronqvist and Fahlenbrach (2009) on their influence of corporate policies in general.
Chen et al. show this benefit is increasing in block size and the absence of business ties (which is
related to the threat of exit).
                                                                                          15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
       Blockholder Trading, Market Efficiency, and Managerial Myopia 2505

future research. Existing theories have modeled blockholders as controlling
entities who add value through intervention, and, accordingly, most empiri-
cal studies have focused on private benefits and control rights. By contrast, the
model indicates that blockholders can be perceived as informed traders who ex-
ert governance through inf luencing prices. Therefore, future corporate finance
theories of blockholders could import more complex effects typically featured
in asset pricing models of informed trading. For example, Edmans and Manso
(2009) show that splitting a stake between multiple informed traders increases
trading volumes, market efficiency, and consequently firm value. They therefore
derive multiple blockholders as an optimal shareholding structure, consistent
with empirical evidence. Similarly, new empirical directions may arise from
perceiving blockholders as informed traders rather than controlling entities.
They should therefore generate trading profits and augment price efficiency,
and their value added should depend on liquidity.


                                       Appendix
Proof of Lemma 1: Let β̂ denote the market maker’s conjecture about the
amount sold by B upon receiving ib , and µ̂ denote the conjectured monitoring
effort. If d ≤ 0, the market maker knows that B has sold, and thus received, ib .
If d > 0, the posterior probability that ig was received is

                                                λe−λd Pr(i g )
                  Pr(i g | d > 0) =                                         .
                                      λe−λd Pr(i g ) + λe−λ(d +β̂) Pr(ib)

  Using Pr(X | d > 0) = Pr(X | ig )Pr(ig | d > 0) + Pr(X | ib )Pr(ib | d > 0), we even-
tually obtain

                                          1 + e−λβ̂ + µ̂(1 − e−λβ̂ )
                      Pr(X | d > 0) =                                  .
                                                2(1 + e−λβ̂ )
Hence, the market maker sets the following prices:
                
                
                     1 − µ̂
                 P = 2 X if d ≤ 0
                

                
                     1 + e−λβ̂ + µ̂(1 − e−λβ̂ )
                
                P =                             X if d > 0.
                             2(1 + e−λβ̂ )

   If B has received ib , the firm is worth P = 1−µ   2
                                                        X to her. Because the market
maker’s conjecture is correct in equilibrium, µ̂ = µ and so B makes zero profit
if d ≤ 0. She only makes a profit if d > 0, that is, u > β. Her objective function
is therefore
                      ∝                                     
                            1 + e−λβ̂ + µ̂(1 − e−λβ̂ ) 1 − µ
              max β X                                  −        λe−λu d u.
              β≤α                 2(1 + e−λβ̂ )           2
                       β
                                                                                         15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
2506                         The Journal of FinanceR

The optimum is given by
                                    
                                    
                                    
                                                   1
                                    α     if α ≤
                                                   λ
                               β=
                                    
                                    
                                    1      if α >
                                                   1
                                      λ            λ
as in equation (5). Because the market maker’s belief is correct in equilibrium,
β̂ = β. This gives rise to equations (2) and (3).
   Now consider B’s monitoring decision. Net of monitoring costs, B’s profits are
given by
                                                                     1
  Pr(ib)β[Pr(u > β)(P | d > 0) + Pr(u ≤ β)(P | d ≤ 0) − E[V | ib]] − cµ2
                                                                     2
                                                                     
                         −λβ            −λβ
       1       −λβ 1 + e     + µ̂ 1 − e           −λβ 1 − µ̂    1−µ      1
    = βX e                                  + 1−e            −          − cµ2 ,
       2                 2 1 + e−λβ                     2          2     2
                                                                           (A1)
where the first 12 is the probability that ib is received and e−λβ is the probability
that u > β. Differentiating with respect to µ and then setting µ̂ = µ derives the
optimal µ as
                                           βX
                                     µ=       .                              Q.E.D.
                                           4c


Proof of Lemma 2: The blockholder’s trade is

                               β = min(ν(1 − α), α).
                                                 ν                 ν
This is maximized at ν(1 − α) = α, that is, α = ν+1 . Because α = ν+1 maximizes
                         βX
β, it also maximizes µ = 4c . Q.E.D.

Proof of Lemma 3: Taking first-order conditions of equation (10) with respect
to θ yields

                            (1 − ω) g − 2ωθ X (1 − π X ).                         (A2)

The first term represents the increase in V that results from increased invest-
ment, and the second term captures the lower expected stock price that results
from the increased probability of emitting sb . Setting the first-order condition to
zero and imposing the constraint θ ≤ 1 leads to equation (11). The comparative
statics with respect to g, πX , X, and ω follow immediately. Q.E.D.

                                                       (1−ω) g
Proof of Proposition 2: From equation (11), θ = 1 if 2ωX (1−π X )
                                                                  ≥ 1, that is,

                                        (1 − ω) g
                                 X ≤                .
                                       2ω(1 − π X )
                                                                                          15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
        Blockholder Trading, Market Efficiency, and Managerial Myopia 2507
                                                         −λβ
In turn, the minimum value of π X = 12 (µ2 1+e
                                            1−e
                                                −λβ + 1) is 2 (when α = 0) and the
                                                            1

maximum value is 1+e−1 (when ν = 1, α = 2 and X = 8c, so µ = 1). Hence, when
                      1                     1

X ≤ X1 , θ = 1 regardless of the value of πX , and thus α. Conversely, when X >
X2 , θ < 1∀α. Differentiating (11) with respect to α yields

                             ∂θ    ∂θ ∂π X
                                =
                             ∂α   ∂π X ∂α
                                     (1 − ω) g   ∂π X
                                =                     .                           (A3)
                                  2ωX (1 − π X )2 ∂α
                                                              ∂θ
Hence, when X > X2 , θ is strictly increasing in πX and ∂α       has the same sign
    ∂π X
as ∂α . From Proposition 1, θ is therefore strictly increasing (decreasing) in
α if α < (>) α ∗ . For X = X2 , θ = 1 for at most one value of α (α = α ∗ ), and so
the directional relationships remain strict. For X1 < X < X2 , θ may be 1 for a
continuum of values of α, so the relationship between θ and πX (and thus α) is
no longer strict.
      ∂θ                           ∂2θ       ∂2θ
  If ∂α  = 0, the cross-partials ∂α∂ g
                                        and ∂α∂ω are given by

                           ∂ 2θ      1−ω         ∂π X
                                =                     ,
                          ∂α∂ g   2ωX (1 − π X )2 ∂α
                           ∂ 2θ         g          ∂π X
                                =− 2                    .
                          ∂α∂ω    2ω X (1 − π X ) ∂α
                                                 2


If α < α ∗ , ∂π                ∂ θ           ∂ θ
                                                 < 0. If α > α ∗ , all inequalities are
                               2                 2

              ∂α
                X
                  > 0, and so ∂α∂ g
                                    > 0 and ∂α∂ω
reversed. We also have

              ∂ 2θ     (1 − ω) g     ∂ 2πX    (1 − ω) g ∂π X ∂π X
                   =                       +                      ,
             ∂α∂c    2ωX (1 − π X ) ∂α∂c
                                   2         ωX (1 − π X )3 ∂c ∂α

where
                                                
                   ∂π X      1 − e−λβ       µ2            −2π X + 1
                          =−                         =              < 0,
                    ∂c       1 + e−λβ       c                 c
                   ∂ 2πX    ∂π X 2
                         =−        .
                   ∂α∂c      ∂α c

If α < α ∗ , ∂π   > 0. Thus, ∂∂α∂c
                                πX
                                   < 0 and ∂π∂cX ∂π            ∂ θ
                                   2
                                                                   < 0. If α > α ∗ ,
                                                                       2

              ∂α
                X
                                                  ∂α
                                                    X
                                                      < 0, so ∂α∂c
                                     ∂θ
all inequalities are reversed. If ∂α = 0, all cross-partials are zero. Hence,
Proposition 2 states the cross-partials in terms of inequalities. Q.E.D.

Proof of Proposition 3: From equation (7), the measure of market efficiency is
                                                 
                               1     1 − e−λβ
                          πX =    µ2          + 1   .                    (A4)
                               2     1 + e−λβ
                                                                                          15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
2508                         The Journal of FinanceR
                                                          α
        ν
If α ≤ ν+1 , then β = α and so µ = α4cX . Let J = e− ν(1−α) . The derivative with re-
spect to ν is:

                               ∂π X     µ2 J αλ
                                              ν
                                    =−           < 0,
                                ∂ν     (1 + J )2
which is the negative camouf lage effect. Thus, market efficiency is maximized
                                  ν              α                                 α
at the lowest possible ν. If α ≤ ν+1 , then ν ≥ 1−α , so the lowest possible ν is 1−α .
          ν                                                                   ∂µ
  If α > ν+1 , then β = λ and so µ = 4cλ , which is increasing in ν, that is, ∂ν > 0.
                        1               X

Differentiating (A4) with respect to ν gives

                                        1 − e−1 ∂µ
                                    µ              > 0,
                                        1 + e−1 ∂ν
                                                                       ν
which ref lects the beneficial effects of liquidity on effort. If α > ν+1 , then ν <
 α                                  α                        α
1−α
    , so the highest possible ν is 1−α
                                       . In both cases, ν = 1−α
                                                                 maximizes   market
efficiency πX . From equation (11), increasing πX in turn augments θ . Q.E.D.

Proof of Proposition 4: Dropping constants, B’s objective function (12) becomes
                                  −λβ         
                                    e        1
                             β 2
                                           −     .                          (A5)
                                  1 + e−λβ   4
                            ν              ν
We first prove that α ∗P ≤ ν+1   . If α > ν+1 , then β = ν(1 − α) and λβ = 1. Hence,
(A5) becomes
                                          −1            
                                              e        1
                            ν 2 (1 − α)2            −      ,
                                           1 + e−1     4
                                                          ν            ν
which is decreasing in α. Thus, B will never choose α > ν+1  . If α ≤ ν+1 , then
β = α and the first-order condition of (A5) is
                                                    
                                           α            1
                 F (ν, α) = K 2 −                      − = 0,               (A6)
                                   ν(1 + J )(1 − α)2    2
                                α
where K = J J+1 and J = e− ν(1−α) as before. At α = ν+1
                                                     ν
                                                        , J = e−1 and so (A5) be-
comes
                                                
                           e−1            ν+1       1
                          −1
                                     2 −      −1
                                                   − ,
                         e +1            1+e        2
                                                                       ν
which is negative for all ν ∈ [0, 1]. Thus, αP∗ is strictly less than ν+1 .
  Returning to equation (A6), an increase in ν augments J and thus also K. In
addition, the term in square brackets rises, so ∂∂νF > 0. An increase in α reduces
J and thus also K. In addition, the term in square brackets falls, so ∂∂αF < 0.
Because
                                    ∂F   ∂ F ∂α
                                       +        = 0,
                                    ∂ν   ∂α ∂ν
                                                                                        15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
       Blockholder Trading, Market Efficiency, and Managerial Myopia 2509

         ∂α ∗
we have ∂νP > 0.
  From equation (11), investment θ is monotonic in market efficiency πX . In
turn,
                                              α ∗P        
                                          − ν(1−α
                          1  α ∗2
                                                    ∗ )
                                P X 1−e
                                    2               P
                    πX =                       α ∗P
                                                        + 1 .         (A7)
                          2    16c2       − ν(1−α   ∗ )
                                      1+e           P



In addition to its positive effect on πX through augmenting αP∗ , ν also has a
direct negative effect, the camouf lage effect. We must therefore prove that the
first effect dominates. For brevity, I write α instead of αP∗ in what follows. We
drop constants in equation (A7) and define
                                                              α
                                                         − ν(1−α)
                                                21 − e
                               G(ν, α(ν)) = α                α      .
                                                 1 + e− ν(1−α)
  Differentiating G with respect to ν yields
                                                                          
      dG          1 − J ∂α          αJ           ∂α         αJ           α
          = 2α             +                        −                        .
       dν         1 + J ∂ν   ν(1 + J )2 (1 − α)2 ∂ν   ν(1 + J )2 (1 − α) ν

From equation (A6) above, we calculate
                                                     
            ∂F         1     ∂J            α
                =                2−
            ∂ν     (1 + J )2 ∂ν     ν(1 + J )(1 − α)2
                                   α           ∂J                α
                        +K                         +K 2
                           ν(1 + J )2 (1 − α)2 ∂ν        ν (1 + J )(1 − α)2
                                                              
                  ∂F        1     ∂J                α
                −    =−                  2 −
                  ∂α    (1 + J )2 ∂α         ν(1 + J )(1 − α)2
                                     α          ∂J        1      1+α
                        −K                         +K
                             ν(1 + J ) (1 − α) ∂α
                                      2       2       ν(1 + J ) (1 − α)3

  The ratio of the first term of ∂∂νF to the first term of − ∂∂αF is

                                     ∂ J ∂ J          α
                                 −            = (1 − α) .                        (A8)
                                     ∂ν ∂α             ν
                                                                                α
The ratio of the second terms is also (A8). The ratio of the third terms is 1−α
                                                                            1+α ν
                                                                                  .
Therefore,
                               ∂α    ∂F ∂F   1−αα
                                  =−        >       .
                               ∂ν    ∂ν ∂α    1+α ν
Dropping the constant 2α, we have
                                                                     
          dG            α                                 α2 J
              >                    (1 − J )(1 − α) −                    .
          dν    (1 + J )(1 + α)ν                     ν(1 + J )(1 − α)
                                                                                                        15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
2510                              The Journal of FinanceR

It is sufficient to prove that the term in square brackets is positive. By Taylor
expansion,
                                   α              α         α2
                        J = e− ν(1−α) < 1 −            + 2          ,
                                               ν(1 − α) 2ν (1 − α)2
and so
                                   α2 J
              (1 − J )(1 − α) −
                              ν(1 + J )(1 − α)
                                          
                        α          α2                       α2 J
                 >           − 2             (1 − α) −                  .
                     ν(1 − α) 2ν (1 − α)2              ν(1 + J )(1 − α)
            α
Dropping ν(1−α) , we obtain
                                            
                                       α                   αJ
                         1−                    (1 − α) −          .                            (A9)
                                   2ν(1 − α)             (1 + J )
             ν                    α
Because α < ν+1 ≤ 12 , we have 2ν(1−α) < 12 . Therefore,
                                                   
                            α                        1 1  1
                  1−                (1 − α) > 1 −        = .
                        2ν(1 − α)                    2 2  4

In addition, because α < 12 and J ≤ 1, we also have
                                            αJ      1
                                                   < .
                                          (1 + J )  4
Hence, (A9) and thus ddGν are positive. Therefore, πX and θ are increasing
in ν. Q.E.D.



                                            REFERENCES
Admati, Anat, and Paul Pf leiderer, 2009, The “Wall Street Walk” and shareholder activism: Exit
    as a form of voice, Review of Financial Studies 22, 2645–2685.
Aghion, Philippe, Patrick Bolton, and Jean Tirole, 2004, Exit options in corporate finance: Liquidity
    versus incentives, Review of Finance 8, 327–353.
Amihud, Yakov, and Kefei Li, 2006, The declining information content of dividend announcements
    and the effects of institutional holdings, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 41,
    637–660.
Anderson, Ronald, Augustine Duru and David Reeb, 2009, Family preferences and investment
    policy: Evidence from capital expenditures and R&D spending, Working paper, American Uni-
    versity.
Armour, John, Bernard Black, Brian Cheffins, and Richard Nolan, 2007, Private enforcement
    of corporate law: An empirical comparison of the U.S. and U.K., Working paper, European
    Corporate Governance Institute.
Atanassov, Julian, 2008, Do hostile takeovers stif le innovation? Evidence from antitakeover legis-
    lation and corporate patenting, Working paper, University of Oregon.
Barclay, Michael, and Clifford Holderness, 1989, Private benefits from control of public corpora-
    tions, Journal of Financial Economics 25, 371–395.
                                                                                                     15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
        Blockholder Trading, Market Efficiency, and Managerial Myopia 2511

Barclay, Michael, and Clifford Holderness, 1991, Negotiated block trades and corporate control,
    Journal of Finance 46, 861–878.
Barlevy, Gadi, and Pietro Veronesi, 2000, Information acquisition in financial markets, Review of
    Economic Studies 67, 79–90.
Bartov, Eli, Suresh Radhakrishnan, and Itzhak Krinsky, 2000, Investor sophistication and
    patterns in stock returns after earnings announcements, The Accounting Review 75, 43–
    63.
Baysinger, Barry, Rita Kosnik, and Thomas Turk, 1991, Effects of board and ownership structure
    on corporate R&D strategy, Academy of Management Journal 34, 205–214.
Becht, Marco, Julian Franks, Colin Mayer, and Stefano Rossi, 2009, Returns to shareholder ac-
    tivism: Evidence from a clinical study of the Hermes U.K. Focus Fund, Review of Financial
    Studies 22, 3093–3129.
Becker, Bo, Henrik Cronqvist, and Rüdiger Fahlenbrach, 2008, Estimating the effect of large
    shareholders using a geographic instrument, Working paper, University of Illinois at Urbana-
    Champaign.
Berle, Adolf, and Gardner Means, 1932, The Modern Corporation and Private Property (MacMillan,
    New York, NY).
Bernhardt, Dan, Burton Hollifield, and Eric Hughson, 1995, Investment and insider trading, Re-
    view of Financial Studies 8, 501–543.
Bhide, Amar, 1993, The hidden costs of stock market liquidity, Journal of Financial Economics 34,
    31–51.
Black, Bernard, 1990, Shareholder passivity reexamined, Michigan Law Review 89, 520–608.
Boehmer, Ekkehart, and Eric Kelley, 2009, Institutional investors and the informational efficiency
    of prices, Review of Financial Studies 22, 3563–3594.
Bolton, Patrick, and Ernst-Ludwig von Thadden, 1998, Blocks, liquidity, and corporate control,
    Journal of Finance 53, 1–25.
Boot, Arnoud, and Anjan Thakor, 1993, Security design, Journal of Finance 49, 1349–1378.
Brav, Alon, and Richmond Mathews, 2008, Empty voting and the efficiency of corporate governance,
    Working paper, Duke University.
Brockman, Paul, and Xuemin (Sterling) Yan, 2009, Block ownership and firm-specific information,
    Journal of Banking and Finance 33, 308–316.
Burkart, Mike, Denis Gromb, and Fausto Panunzi, 1997, Large shareholders, monitoring, and the
    value of the firm, Quarterly Journal of Economics 112, 693–728.
Burns, Natasha, Simi Kedia, and Marc Lipson, 2008, Institutional ownership and monitoring:
    Evidence from financial reporting practices, Working paper, University of Georgia.
Bushee, Brian, 1998, The inf luence of institutional investors on myopic R&D investment behavior,
    The Accounting Review 73, 305–333.
Bushee, Brian, and Theodore Goodman, 2007, Which institutional investors trade based on pri-
    vate information about earnings and returns? Journal of Accounting Research 45, 289–
    321.
Chen, Xia, Jarrad Harford, and Kai Li, 2007, Monitoring: Which institutions matter? Journal of
    Financial Economics 86, 279–305.
Cronqvist, Henrik, and Rüdiger Fahlenbrach, 2009, Large shareholders and corporate policies,
    Review of Financial Studies, forthcoming.
Dechow, Patricia, Richard Sloan, and Amy Sweeney, 1996, Causes and consequences of earnings
    manipulation: An analysis of firms subject to enforcement actions by the SEC, Contemporary
    Accounting Research 13, 1–36.
Demsetz, Harold, and Kenneth Lehn, 1985, The structure of corporate ownership: Causes and
    consequences, Journal of Political Economy 93, 1155–1177.
Edmans, Alex, 2009a, Short-term termination without deterring long-term investment: A theory
    of debt (not dividends), Working paper, University of Pennslyvania.
Edmans, Alex, 2009b, Does the stock market fully value intangibles? Employee satisfaction and
    equity prices, Working paper, University of Pennslyvania.
Edmans, Alex, and Gustavo Manso, 2009, Governance through exit and voice: A theory of multiple
    blockholders, Working paper, University of Pennslyvania.
                                                                                                      15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
2512                             The Journal of FinanceR

Fang, Vivian, Thomas Noe, and Sheri Tice, 2009, Stock market liquidity and firm value, Journal
     of Financial Economics, forthcoming.
Farber, David, 2005, Restoring trust after fraud: Does corporate governance matter? The Account-
     ing Review 80, 539–561.
Faure-Grimaud, Antoine, and Denis Gromb, 2004, Public trading and private incentives, Review
     of Financial Studies 17, 985–1014.
Fulghieri, Paolo, and Dmitry Lukin, 2001, Information production, dilution costs, and optimal
     security design, Journal of Financial Economics 61, 3–42.
Gallagher, David, Peter Gardner, and Peter Swan, 2008, Blockholder intervention versus threat of
     exit, Working paper, University of New South Wales.
Graham, John, Campbell Harvey, and Shivaram Rajgopal, 2005, The economic implications of
     corporate financial reporting, Journal of Accounting and Economics 40, 3–73.
Hansen, Gary, and Charles Hill, 1991, Are institutional investors myopic? A time-series study of
     four technology-driven industries, Strategic Management Journal 12, 1–16.
Hef lin, Frank, and Kenneth Shaw, 2000, Blockholder ownership and market liquidity, Journal of
     Financial and Quantitative Analysis 35, 621–633.
Holderness, Clifford, 2009, The myth of diffuse ownership in the United States, Review of Financial
     Studies 22, 1377–1408.
Holmstrom, Bengt, and Jean Tirole, 1993, Market liquidity and performance monitoring, Journal
     of Political Economy 101, 678–709.
Johnson, Shane, Harley Ryan, and Yisong Tian, 2009, Managerial incentives and corporate fraud:
     The source of incentives matter, Review of Finance 13, 115–145.
Kahn, Charles, and Andrew Winton, 1998, Ownership structure, speculation, and shareholder
     intervention, Journal of Finance 53, 99–129.
Kaplan, Steven, and Bernadette Minton, 2006, How has CEO turnover changed? Increasingly
     performance sensitive boards and increasingly uneasy CEOs, Working paper, University of
     Chicago.
Knyazeva, Diana, 2009, Analysts and journalists: Firm policies and governance design, Working
     paper, University of Rochester.
Kole, Stacey, 1997, The complexity of compensation contracts, Journal of Financial Economics 43,
     79–104.
Kyle, Albert, 1985, Continuous auctions and insider trading, Econometrica 53, 1315–1335.
Kyle, Albert, and Jean-Luc Vila, 1991, Noise trading and takeovers, RAND Journal of Economics
     22, 54–71.
La Porta, Rafael, Florencio Lopez-de-Silanes, and Andrei Shleifer, 1999, Corporate ownership
     around the world, Journal of Finance 54, 471–517.
Lee, Peggy, 2005, A comparison of ownership structures and innovations of U.S. and Japanese
     firms, Managerial and Decision Economics 26, 39–50.
Lee, Peggy, and Hugh O’Neill, 2003, Ownership structures and R&D investments of U.S. and
     Japanese firms: Agency and stewardship perspectives, Academy of Management Journal 46,
     212–225.
Lowenstein, Louis, 1988, What’s Wrong with Wall Street? Short-Term Gain and the Absentee Share-
     holder (Addison-Wesley, Reading, MA).
Manne, Henry, 1966, Insider Trading and the Stock Market (Free Press, New York, NY).
Maug, Ernst, 1998, Large shareholders as monitors: Is there a trade-off between liquidity and
     control? Journal of Finance 53, 65–98.
Maug, Ernst, 2002, Insider trading legislation and corporate governance, European Economic Re-
     view 46, 1569–1597.
McCahery, Joseph, Zacharias Sautner, and Laura Starks, 2008, Behind the scenes: The corporate
     governance preferences of institutional investors, Working paper, University of Amsterdam.
Merton, Robert, 1987, A simple model of capital market equilibrium with incomplete information,
     Journal of Finance 42, 483–510.
Mikkelson, Wayne, and Megan Partch, 1985, Stock price effects and costs of secondary distributions,
     Journal of Financial Economics 14, 165–194.
                                                                                                      15406261, 2009, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2009.01508.x by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
        Blockholder Trading, Market Efficiency, and Managerial Myopia 2513

Murphy, Kevin, 2003, Stock-based pay in new economy firms, Journal of Accounting and Economics
    34, 129–147.
Narayanan, M. P., 1985, Managerial incentives for short-term results, Journal of Finance 40, 1469–
    1484.
Pagano, Marco, and Ailsa Röell, 1998, The choice of stock ownership structure: Agency costs, mon-
    itoring, and the decision to go public, Quarterly Journal of Economics 113, 187–225.
Parrino, Robert, Richard Sias, and Laura Starks, 2003, Voting with their feet: Institutional own-
    ership changes around forced CEO turnover, Journal of Financial Economics 68, 3–46.
Peng, Lin, and Ailsa Röell, 2008, Executive pay, earnings manipulation and shareholder litigation,
    Review of Finance 12, 141–184.
Porter, Michael, 1992, Capital disadvantage: America’s failing capital investment system, Harvard
    Business Review 70, 65–82.
Roe, Mark, 1994, Strong Managers, Weak Owners: The Political Roots of American Corporate Fi-
    nance (Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ).
Rubin, Amir, 2007, Ownership level, ownership concentration and liquidity, Journal of Financial
    Markets 10, 219–248.
Scharfstein, David, and Jeremy Stein, 1990, Herd behavior and investment, American Economic
    Review 80, 465–479.
Scholes, Myron, 1972, The market for securities: Substitution versus price pressure and the effects
    of information on share prices, Journal of Business 45, 179–211.
Shleifer, Andrei, and Robert Vishny, 1986, Large shareholders and corporate control, Journal of
    Political Economy 94, 461–488.
Sias, Richard, Laura Starks, and Sheridan Titman, 2006, Changes in institutional ownership and
    stock returns: Assessment and methodology, Journal of Business 79, 2869–2910.
Stein, Jeremy, 1988, Takeover threats and managerial myopia, Journal of Political Economy 46,
    61–80.
Stein, Jeremy, 1989, Efficient capital markets, inefficient firms: A model of myopic corporate be-
    havior, Quarterly Journal of Economics 104, 655–669.
Stein, Jeremy, 1996, Rational capital budgeting in an irrational world, Journal of Business 69,
    429–455.
Thurow, Lester, 1993, Head to Head: The Coming Economics Battle Among Japan, Europe and
    America (Warner Books, New York, NY).
Van Nieuwerburgh, Stijn, and Laura Veldkamp, 2009, Information acquisition and under-
    diversification, Review of Economic Studies, forthcoming.
Wahal, Sunil, and John McConnell, 2000, Do institutional investors exacerbate managerial myopia?
    Journal of Corporate Finance 6, 307–329.
Wruck, Karen, 1989, Equity ownership concentration and firm value: Evidence from private equity
    financings, Journal of Financial Economics 23, 3–28.
Yan, Xuemin, and Zhe Zhang, 2009, Institutional investors and equity returns: Are short-term
    institutions better informed? Review of Financial Studies.
Zingales, Luigi, 2000, In search of new foundations, Journal of Finance 55, 1623–1653.
