                                                                                              ANNUAL
                                                                                              REVIEWS   Further                        Blockholders and Corporate
                                                                                              Click here for quick links to
                                                                                              Annual Reviews content online,
                                                                                              including:
                                                                                                                                       Governance
                                                                                              • Other articles in this volume
                                                                                              • Top cited articles                     Alex Edmans1,2,3,4,5
                                                                                              • Top downloaded articles




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                              • Our comprehensive search               1
                                                                                                                                        Finance Subject Area, London Business School, London NW1 4SA, United Kingdom;
                                                                                                                                       email: aedmans@london.edu
                                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                                        Finance Department, Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
                                                                                                                                       Pennsylvania 19104; email: aedmans@wharton.upenn.edu
                                                                                                                                       3
                                                                                                                                           National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138
                                                                                                                                       4
                                                                                                                                           Centre for Economic Policy Research, London, EC1V 3PZ, United Kingdom
                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                           European Corporate Governance Institute, B-1050 Brussels, Belgium




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                    Annu. Rev. Financ. Econ. 2014. 6:23–50             Keywords
                                                                                    First published online as a Review in Advance on   large shareholders, governance, voice, activism, exit, microstructure
                                                                                    September 22, 2014

                                                                                    The Annual Review of Financial Economics is        Abstract
                                                                                    online at financial.annualreviews.org
                                                                                                                                       This paper reviews the theoretical and empirical literature on the
                                                                                    This article’s doi:                                channels through which blockholders (large shareholders) engage in
                                                                                    10.1146/annurev-financial-110613-034455
                                                                                                                                       corporate governance. In classical models, blockholders exert gover-
                                                                                    Copyright © 2014 by Annual Reviews.                nance through direct intervention in a firm’s operations, otherwise
                                                                                    All rights reserved
                                                                                                                                       known as “voice.” These theories have motivated empirical research
                                                                                    JEL codes: G14, G32, G34                           on the determinants and consequences of activism. More recent
                                                                                                                                       models show that blockholders can govern through an alternative
                                                                                                                                       mechanism known as “exit”—selling their shares if the manager
                                                                                                                                       underperforms. These theories give rise to new empirical studies on
                                                                                                                                       the two-way relationship between blockholders and financial mar-
                                                                                                                                       kets, linking corporate finance with asset pricing. Blockholders may
                                                                                                                                       also worsen governance by extracting private benefits of control or
                                                                                                                                       pursuing objectives other than firm value maximization. I highlight
                                                                                                                                       the empirical challenges in identifying causal effects of and on
                                                                                                                                       blockholders as well as the typical strategies attempted to achieve
                                                                                                                                       identification. I close with directions for future research.



                                                                                                                                                                                                        23
                                                                                         1. INTRODUCTION
                                                                                         The seminal article by Berle & Means (1932) highlights the agency problems that arise from
                                                                                         the separation of ownership and control. When a firm’s managers are distinct from its ultimate
                                                                                         owners, they have inadequate incentives to maximize its value. For example, they may exert
                                                                                         insufficient effort, engage in wasteful investment, or extract excessive salaries and perks. The
                                                                                         potential for such value erosion leads to a first-order role for corporate governance—mechanisms
                                                                                         to ensure that managers act in shareholders’ interest. The importance of firm-level governance for
                                                                                         the economy as a whole has been highlighted by the recent financial crisis, which had substantial
                                                                                         effects above and beyond the individual firms involved.
                                                                                             The source of agency problems is that managers have inadequate stakes in their firms. As
                                                                                         a result, large shareholders—otherwise known as blockholders—can play a critical role in gov-
                                                                                         ernance, because their sizable stakes give them incentives to bear the cost of monitoring managers.
                                                                                         Blockholders are prevalent across companies and around the world. Holderness (2009) finds that




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                         96% of US firms contain at least one blockholder (defined as a shareholder who holds at least
                                                                                         5%); this ratio is the 15th highest out of the 22 countries that he studies. Thus, understanding the
                                                                                         role that blockholders play in corporate governance is an important issue.
                                                                                             Large shareholders can exert governance through two main mechanisms (see Hirschman
                                                                                         1970). The first is direct intervention within a firm, otherwise known as “voice.” Examples include
                                                                                         suggesting a strategic change via a public shareholder proposal or via a private letter to man-
                                                                                         agement, or voting against directors. Although most of the early research on blockholder gov-
                                                                                         ernance has focused on voice, a recent literature has analyzed a second governance mechanism—
                                                                                         trading a firm’s shares, otherwise known as “exit,” following the “Wall Street Rule,” taking
                                                                                         the “Wall Street Walk,” or “voting with your feet.” If the manager destroys value, blockholders
                                                                                         can sell their shares, pushing down the stock price and thus punishing the manager ex post.
                                                                                         Ex ante, the threat of exit induces the manager to maximize value.




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                             Blockholders may also exacerbate rather than solve agency problems. First, even if block-
                                                                                         holders’ actions maximize firm value ex post, their presence may reduce value ex ante: The threat
                                                                                         of intervention may erode managerial initiative, and their mere presence may lower liquidity.
                                                                                         Second, instead of maximizing firm value, blockholders may extract private benefits. While
                                                                                         blockholders may alleviate conflicts of interest between managers and investors, there may be
                                                                                         conflicts of interest between the blockholders and small shareholders. For example, blockholders
                                                                                         may induce the firm to buy products at inflated prices from another company that they own.
                                                                                             This article surveys the three mechanisms through which large shareholders can affect firm
                                                                                         value: (a) improving it by governance through voice, (b) improving it by governance through exit,
                                                                                         or (c) worsening it through extracting private benefits or other channels. I start by reviewing the
                                                                                         theoretical literature, in particular highlighting empirical implications. The two governance
                                                                                         mechanisms share some predictions: For example, a larger stake generally improves governance
                                                                                         through both voice and exit, and such governance in turn enhances firm value. However, they
                                                                                         differ in many others. Most notably, voice theories yield implications for the causes and con-
                                                                                         sequences of activism, whereas exit theories predict how blockholders affect financial markets and
                                                                                         how their effectiveness depends on microstructure factors. I then move to the empirical evidence on
                                                                                         the determinants and effects of blockholder structure.
                                                                                             In linking the theoretical and empirical literatures, I emphasize four challenges. First, identi-
                                                                                         fying causal effects is difficult: Instead of causing changes in firm outcomes, potential investors
                                                                                         may predict changes in firm outcomes and acquire a block accordingly, or unobservable variables
                                                                                         may jointly attract large shareholders and affect outcomes. Second, blockholders can exert gov-
                                                                                         ernance through the threat of exit and voice, rather than only actual acts of exit and voice. The



                                                                                    24   Edmans
                                                                                    absence of these actions does not imply the absence of governance—on the contrary, the threat
                                                                                    of intervening or selling may be sufficient to induce the manager to maximize value, so that the
                                                                                    actual act is not necessary. However, such threats are much harder for empiricists to observe.
                                                                                    Third, there is no unambiguous definition of a blockholder. The empirical literature typically
                                                                                    defines a blockholder as a 5% shareholder, because this level triggers disclosure requirements in
                                                                                    the United States. However, theoretical models predict that monitoring increases continuously
                                                                                    with block size (up to a point), rather than a discontinuity at 5%. Moreover, if the benefits of
                                                                                    monitoring are increasing in firm size, the dollar block size is a more accurate measure of
                                                                                    monitoring incentives than the percentage block size. Fourth, although most models consider
                                                                                    a single blockholder or multiple symmetric blockholders, in reality blockholders are a diverse
                                                                                    class comprising many different types of investors: hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds,
                                                                                    individuals, and corporations. These different investors may engage in different forms of gov-
                                                                                    ernance, be affected by firm characteristics in different ways, and have different effects on firm
                                                                                    outcomes. Considering blockholders as a homogenous entity may miss interesting relationships




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                    at a more granular level.
                                                                                        Far from reducing its attractiveness as a research area, these empirical challenges suggest
                                                                                    that blockholder governance is a particularly fruitful topic, as they mean that many first-order
                                                                                    questions—including an issue as fundamental as whether blockholders affect firm value—
                                                                                    remain unanswered and many theories remain untested. This article closes by highlighting
                                                                                    open questions for future research, both theoretical and empirical. In particular, whereas early
                                                                                    voice theories spawned an empirical literature on blockholders and corporate control (for
                                                                                    an excellent survey, see Holderness 20031), recent exit theories suggest a different way of
                                                                                    thinking about blockholder governance that gives rise to new areas for research—notably, the
                                                                                    link between governance (traditionally a corporate finance topic) and financial markets
                                                                                    (traditionally an asset pricing topic). (For a survey on the link between financial markets and
                                                                                    corporate finance, see Bond, Edmans & Goldstein 2012.) This article focuses on outside




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                    blockholders: large shareholders who are not the firm’s officers.2 The literature on inside
                                                                                    blockholders is covered by reviews of CEO compensation, such as Murphy (1999, 2013),
                                                                                    Edmans & Gabaix (2009, 2014), and Frydman & Jenter (2010).


                                                                                    2. THE THEORY

                                                                                    2.1. Theories of Voice/Intervention
                                                                                    Intervention encompasses any action that an investor can undertake to improve firm value but that
                                                                                    is costly to the investor. It can involve helping managers to create value, such as providing advice
                                                                                    on strategic alternatives, or preventing managers from destroying value, such as blocking a
                                                                                    wasteful merger or removing an underperforming executive. Regardless of the specific form, all
                                                                                    intervention involves a free-rider problem: The blockholder bears all the costs of intervention
                                                                                    but enjoys only a fraction of the benefits.
                                                                                        I introduce notation to make the discussion more concrete; in addition, using consistent no-
                                                                                    tation across models highlights their shared themes. Let V (V ) denote firm value without (with) the
                                                                                    intervention, G ¼ V V be the value created by intervention, and P be the price at which the


                                                                                    1
                                                                                     Becht, Bolton & Röell (2003) provide a comprehensive survey of the theoretical and empirical literature on intervention
                                                                                    both by blockholders and through other corporate governance channels.
                                                                                    2
                                                                                     Some empirical studies further distinguish between outside blockholders who are on the board of directors and those
                                                                                    who are not.



                                                                                                                                    www.annualreviews.org  Blockholders and Corporate Governance              25
                                                                                         blockholder can trade shares. This price will typically depend on the number of shares that
                                                                                         the blockholder trades and whether she buys or sells. The blockholder’s initial stake is given by a.
                                                                                             Shleifer & Vishny (1986) model the blockholder’s free-rider problem. The blockholder
                                                                                         engages in costly monitoring, which increases the probability that she uncovers a superior
                                                                                         business strategy that creates a privately known value G. If she finds a new strategy, she can
                                                                                         implement it through one of three channels of intervention. First, she can pay the cost of
                                                                                         launching a takeover bid for 0.5  a shares to obtain majority control and implement the new
                                                                                         strategy. She earns a return on her activism from two sources: Her initial stake of a increases in
                                                                                         value by aG, and she may be able to buy the additional 0.5  a shares at a price P that is below
                                                                                         the postrestructuring value V . This purchase is subject to the free-rider problem of Grossman &
                                                                                         Hart (1980)3: Small shareholders will demand a price P that incorporates their expectation of
                                                                                         the restructuring gains (and thus exceeds V). However, because small shareholders do not know
                                                                                         the actual restructuring gains G (and thus the postrestructuring value V ) but must estimate it, P
                                                                                         will typically be below V . The higher the blockholder’s initial stake a, the higher her share of the




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                         restructuring gains aG (her first source of return). Thus, G need not be so high to induce the
                                                                                         blockholder to bid. Because small shareholders expect fewer restructuring gains, they sell for
                                                                                         a lower price P. Knowing that she will not have to pay as high a takeover premium, the blockholder
                                                                                         monitors more to begin with.
                                                                                             Second, the blockholder can implement the new strategy after changing the board of directors
                                                                                         via a proxy fight.4 For example, she may propose her own slate of directors and solicit votes from
                                                                                         other investors via a public campaign. Here again, a larger stake is beneficial through the standard
                                                                                         free-rider argument: It gives the blockholder a sufficiently large share of the gains aG to offset the
                                                                                         cost of the proxy fight.5
                                                                                             Third, the blockholder can implement a strategy by “jawboning”: informal negotiations with
                                                                                         firm management such as writing letters. This mechanism is less costly, as it does not involve
                                                                                         changing management, but the absence of a management change also means that the blockholder




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                         realizes only a fraction of the potential value creation (1b)G, where b > 0. A higher a encourages
                                                                                         the blockholder to pay the cost of a takeover, rather than jawboning, thus creating greater value as
                                                                                         the full improvement G is achieved. In sum, Shleifer & Vishny (1986) predict that firm value is
                                                                                         monotonically increasing in block size.
                                                                                             Since block size determines intervention incentives, Winton (1993), Noe (2002), and Edmans &
                                                                                         Manso (2011) show that the number of blockholders affects the strength of voice by impacting block
                                                                                         size. Splitting a block between multiple investors (e.g., so that N blockholders each hold a/N shares)
                                                                                         weakens voice by exacerbating the free-rider problem. As a result, each individual shareholder
                                                                                         has less incentive to intervene.
                                                                                             Even if a blockholder has a sufficiently large stake to justify the costs of activism, she may still
                                                                                         not intervene. Kahn & Winton (1998) show that the blockholder may instead “cut and run”:
                                                                                         not intervene (in which case, the firm is worth V) and sell her shares. She will be able to sell for



                                                                                         3
                                                                                          The general free-rider problem in intervention is that the blockholder earns only a fraction a of the benefits of intervention
                                                                                         (whether intervention involves launching a takeover bid or proxy fight, engaging with management, or any other channel) but
                                                                                         bears all the costs. The free-rider problem of Grossman & Hart (1980) is specific to the takeover channel: Small shareholders
                                                                                         will not sell their shares to the acquirer for V, instead wishing to free ride on the restructuring that the acquirer will undertake
                                                                                         postacquisition. They will sell only for V , reducing the blockholders’ gains from taking over the firm. However, it does not
                                                                                         apply to the other channels (e.g., jawboning or voting) that do not require the purchase of additional shares.
                                                                                         4
                                                                                          See Yermack (2010) for a review of the role in corporate governance of shareholder voting more generally.
                                                                                         5
                                                                                          See, e.g., Becker, Bergstresser & Subrahmanian (2013) for details on the costs of launching a proxy fight. Gantchev (2013)
                                                                                         builds a sequential decision model to estimate the costs of proxy fights and other stages of shareholder activism.



                                                                                    26   Edmans
                                                                                    a price P that exceeds V, because the price incorporates a possibility of intervention, and thus
                                                                                    profit from selling. 6 (Unlike in exit theories, such selling has no beneficial impact on gov-
                                                                                    ernance, as there is no managerial action.) The option to cut and run leads to a second driver of
                                                                                    intervention in addition to block size: stock illiquidity, the cost at which the blockholder can
                                                                                    trade her shares. Holding all else equal, greater illiquidity reduces the profitability of selling,
                                                                                    and thus encourages intervention. One source of illiquidity is price impact—a large trade
                                                                                    moves the price because the market maker fears that the trader is informed (adverse selection).
                                                                                    In turn, price impact can be reduced by the presence of investors who trade for noninformational
                                                                                    reasons, such as financing consumption.7 A second source of illiquidity is transaction costs, such
                                                                                    as taxes, commissions, or shorting costs. A third is inventory-holding costs, the market maker’s
                                                                                    cost of holding risky assets after buying from the blockholder.
                                                                                        Voice theories reach different conclusions on whether liquidity hinders or helps intervention.
                                                                                    Coffee (1991) and Bhide (1993) verbally argued that liquidity deters voice, as it facilitates
                                                                                    cutting and running. This point was later modeled formally by Aghion, Bolton & Tirole (2004)




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                    and others. It led academics and practitioners to advocate the Japanese model of illiquid stakes—to
                                                                                    “lock in” shareholders for the long term and induce them to govern through voice. These
                                                                                    arguments have resurfaced in the recent financial crisis, as commentators argued that locked-in
                                                                                    shareholders would have monitored firms more closely and prevented the crisis. Partly motivated
                                                                                    by this reasoning, ten member countries of the European Union have agreed to implement a fi-
                                                                                    nancial transaction tax by January 2016.
                                                                                        Maug (1998) overturns the above arguments by showing that liquidity can encourage in-
                                                                                    tervention. As in Shleifer & Vishny (1986), the blockholder gains from intervention not only on
                                                                                    her block a, but also by buying additional shares for a price P < V ; liquidity increases the number
                                                                                    of additional shares she can buy. If block size a is exogenous, this benefit of liquidity (encouraging
                                                                                    “doubling down and intervening”) exceeds the cost described by Coffee (1991) and Bhide (1993)
                                                                                    (encouraging “cutting and running”) if and only if a is sufficiently small. Intuitively, if a is large




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                    to begin with, then the blockholder has sufficient incentive to intervene even without the ability to
                                                                                    buy additional shares, and so the benefit of liquidity is less important. Maug then analyzes the
                                                                                    stake a that the blockholder will choose endogenously. In this extended model, the blockholder
                                                                                    starts with an initial stake of zero, and then acquires a via an observable purchase. Maug shows
                                                                                    that the blockholder will endogenously acquire a small a. Intuitively, a small a increases the free-
                                                                                    float (1  a) held by liquidity investors, and thus the volume of liquidity trades. Since a small a is
                                                                                    chosen, liquidity encourages intervention overall.
                                                                                        Back, Li & Ljungqvist (2014) reach a different conclusion with a model that contrasts Maug
                                                                                    (1998) along a number of dimensions. First, the blockholder acquires her stake a through an
                                                                                    optimal initial public offering (IPO) mechanism, rather than an observable purchase. Second, the
                                                                                    second-stage trading (where the blockholder either cuts and run or doubles down and intervenes)
                                                                                    occurs in a dynamic Kyle model. As a result, the blockholder can infer liquidity from past prices,
                                                                                    whereas it is unknown to her in Maug (1998). Third, liquidity trades are independent of the free
                                                                                    float (1  a), whereas in Maug (1998) they are increasing in the free float. Fourth, the blockholder
                                                                                    has private information on her cost of intervention. Back, Li & Ljungqvist (2014) show that, under



                                                                                    6
                                                                                     Maug (2002) shows that this problem is particularly severe if insider trading is allowed. The manager will voluntarily tell the
                                                                                    blockholder bad news, to encourage her to “cut and run” on this news rather than intervene.
                                                                                    7
                                                                                     Such needs are often referred to as “liquidity” needs, and these investors as “liquidity” investors. Note that these concepts
                                                                                    differ from stock liquidity. Stock liquidity is enhanced not only by the presence of liquidity investors, but also by other factors
                                                                                    such as a reduction in transaction costs.



                                                                                                                                        www.annualreviews.org  Blockholders and Corporate Governance                     27
                                                                                         these assumptions, the stake a chosen in the IPO is typically large. As a result, the “cutting and
                                                                                         running” effect dominates and so liquidity deters intervention.
                                                                                             A separate benefit of liquidity is identified by Faure-Grimaud & Gromb (2004). The value
                                                                                         created by intervention may manifest only in the long term. The blockholder may be hit by
                                                                                         a liquidity shock that forces her to sell in the short term at a price P that is less than V because the
                                                                                         full benefits of intervention have not yet materialized. Stock liquidity encourages trading by
                                                                                         speculators (such as hedge funds), who have information on V through their own monitoring.
                                                                                         Such trading pushes P closer toward V and allows the blockholder to earn a return on her in-
                                                                                         tervention even if she has to sell early.
                                                                                             The above discussion surrounds how liquidity affects intervention incentives for a given
                                                                                         block size a, and finds contrasting results depending on whether a is large or small. In addition,
                                                                                         liquidity also affects the block size a that is formed in the first place. Here, the results are more
                                                                                         consistent, with theories generally finding that liquidity facilitates block formation. In Maug
                                                                                         (1998), if liquidity is sufficiently low, then the blockholder knows that if she acquires a stake of a,




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                         she will earn few profits from subsequently doubling down and intervening. Thus, she chooses to
                                                                                         remain at her initial stake of zero and does not intervene. Kahn & Winton (1998) consider a similar
                                                                                         two-period model. Liquidity increases the informed trading profits that the blockholder enjoys in
                                                                                         the second period, after she has acquired her stake of a. Fearing second-period losses to the
                                                                                         blockholder, small shareholders are willing to sell at a greater discount when she acquires a in the
                                                                                         first period, and so a larger block is formed.8
                                                                                             In Maug (1998) and Kahn & Winton (1998), small shareholders are willing to sell to the
                                                                                         blockholder for less than V because they fear second-period trading losses if they subsequently
                                                                                         suffer a liquidity shock. In contrast, in Grossman & Hart (1980) and Shleifer & Vishny (1986),
                                                                                         there is a single trading period and thus no risk of future liquidity shocks. As a result, small
                                                                                         shareholders will sell only for a price that includes the expected gains from restructuring, leading to
                                                                                         a free-rider problem. Kyle & Vila (1991) also consider a single round of trading and show that the




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                         presence of liquidity traders in this round allows the raider to overcome the free-rider problem and
                                                                                         obtain a block, by camouflaging her trade among liquidity orders. Collin-Dufresne & Fos (2014b)
                                                                                         extend Kyle & Vila (1991) to a dynamic model where the blockholder accumulates shares
                                                                                         continuously and the value created by her eventual intervention is endogenously determined by her
                                                                                         block size at the time. They find that liquidity is beneficial for a similar reason to Kyle & Vila: It
                                                                                         allows greater accumulation of shares, leading to a larger block and thus greater effort by the
                                                                                         activist.


                                                                                         2.2. Theories of Exit/Trading
                                                                                         Many of the above forms of intervention are difficult to implement for some blockholders. First,
                                                                                         certain blockholders’ competitive advantage may lie in selecting stocks, rather than launching
                                                                                         a proxy fight or providing strategic advice. Per the terminology of Dow & Gorton (1997), the
                                                                                         expertise of such blockholders lies in gathering backward-looking, “retrospective” information to
                                                                                         evaluate the current value of the firm (which depends on past decisions), but not forward-looking,
                                                                                         “prospective” information about optimal future decisions. Second, even with expertise, successful



                                                                                         8
                                                                                          In Maug (1998), liquidity also increases the discount at which the blockholder can buy her stake a, but does not affect the size
                                                                                         of the stake she chooses to buy. The blockholder earns a return from two sources—buying her initial stake a at a discount in the
                                                                                         first period, and second-period trading against liquidity investors who own (1  a). While a greater a allows her to profit more
                                                                                         from the first-period discount, it reduces free float and thus second-period trading profits.



                                                                                    28   Edmans
                                                                                    intervention can be difficult. The firm can use corporate resources to support the board’s rec-
                                                                                    ommended slate of directors in a proxy fight or oppose a takeover bid, e.g., through campaigning
                                                                                    to shareholders. It can stagger board elections so that only a minority of positions can be voted
                                                                                    on during a particular year. Third, particularly in the United States, most blockholders hold
                                                                                    small stakes. While Holderness (2009) reports that 96% of US firms feature a shareholder who
                                                                                    owns at least 5%, La Porta, Lopez-de-Silanes & Shleifer (1999) note that only 20% (10%) of
                                                                                    large (medium) US firms feature a blockholder with at least 20%, which they estimate as the
                                                                                    threshold required to exert control.9 Roe (1990) documents political and legal impediments to
                                                                                    forming large blocks in the United States. The theories in Section 2.1 show that low a reduces
                                                                                    incentives to intervene. Even if the blockholder’s incentives were sufficient (e.g., high G means
                                                                                    that aG is high even if a is low), a low stake lowers her likelihood of success in a proxy fight
                                                                                    (which requires winning a sufficient percentage of votes) or being able to “jawbone” managers
                                                                                    into changing strategy (because managers’ receptivity may depend on the threat of a proxy fight
                                                                                    if they are noncompliant).




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                        In the context of voice theories, the prevalence of small blockholders poses a puzzle—if they
                                                                                    cannot intervene, why do they exist, given that holding an undiversified stake is costly from a risk
                                                                                    perspective? Admati & Pfleiderer (2009) and Edmans (2009) show that, even if a blockholder
                                                                                    cannot exercise voice, she can still exert governance through the alternative channel of exit. We
                                                                                    now define V as the firm’s long-run fundamental value after the manager has taken an action
                                                                                    (e.g., effort or investment). The manager’s objective function will typically place weight not only
                                                                                    on V , but also on the short-term stock price P, for reasons discussed below. Thus, his incentives
                                                                                    to improve V will depend on the extent to which these improvements are reflected in P. The
                                                                                    blockholder has private information on V ; by trading on this information, she makes the
                                                                                    stock price more reflective of firm value.10 Put differently, if the manager destroys value and
                                                                                    reduces V , the blockholder will sell her shares and drive the stock price down toward V ,
                                                                                    hurting the manager.11 Thus, the manager has greater incentives to maximize value in the first




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                    place. Admati & Pfleiderer (2009) show that the blockholder typically induces the manager to
                                                                                    exert greater effort but in some cases can worsen the agency problem.12 Edmans (2009) shows
                                                                                    that the blockholder encourages the manager to invest in long-term projects. If a firm announces
                                                                                    low earnings, the blockholder engages in monitoring to determine the cause of low earnings. If
                                                                                    they result from long-term investment rather than low firm quality, she retains her stake rather




                                                                                    9
                                                                                     One caveat is that, because La Porta, Lopez-de-Silanes & Shleifer (1999) study several countries, they use a small sample size
                                                                                    within each country: “Large firms” are the top 20 firms by market capitalization, and “medium firms” are the smallest 10 firms
                                                                                    with a market capitalization of at least $500 million. In personal correspondence, Cliff Holderness reports a median block size
                                                                                    of 8.9% in the United States, using the larger data set of Holderness (2009).
                                                                                    10
                                                                                      Although this governance mechanism is commonly referred to as “exit,” blockholder trading in both directions increases
                                                                                    price informativeness. In Edmans & Manso (2011), blockholders trade in both directions—in particular, they purchase
                                                                                    additional shares if firm value is higher than the market price. In Admati & Pfleiderer (2009) and Edmans (2009), the
                                                                                    blockholder either holds or sells in the core model, but the results are robust to allow for blockholder purchases.
                                                                                    11
                                                                                      In Edmans (2009), exit involves breaking up a block and selling shares on the secondary market, so that the blockholder can
                                                                                    camouflage with liquidity traders. In Admati & Pfleiderer (2009), the block remains intact and its sale is observable, but it is
                                                                                    sold to an uninformed market maker who does not know whether the blockholder has sold in response to a liquidity shock
                                                                                    rather than negative information. Negotiated block sales (studied, e.g., by Barclay & Holderness 1991), where the block not
                                                                                    only remains intact but also is sold to an informed buyer who engages in substantial due diligence, are unlikely to be motivated
                                                                                    by negative private information.
                                                                                    12
                                                                                      If all investors can observe whether the manager has taken an action to increase firm value, but only the blockholder can
                                                                                    observe the value created by the action, the blockholder will sell her shares if the value increase is small. Such selling will
                                                                                    reduce the stock price and the manager’s incentive to take the value-maximizing action in the first place.



                                                                                                                                       www.annualreviews.org  Blockholders and Corporate Governance                   29
                                                                                         than selling, supporting the stock price. This expected “loyalty” encourages the manager to
                                                                                         invest in the first place.
                                                                                            Note that exit theories do not require the blockholder to be cognizant of the impact of her
                                                                                         trading on the manager’s behavior for it to be effective. The blockholder could be motivated purely
                                                                                         by the private desire to earn informed trading profits, but such self-interested actions have a social
                                                                                         benefit by disciplining the manager. In addition, exit theories also highlight an important dis-
                                                                                         tinction between price efficiency and price informativeness, two terms often used synonymously.
                                                                                         In any rational model, the price is always semi-strong-form efficient conditional upon an in-
                                                                                         formation set. However, in the presence of blockholders, this information set is richer, and so price
                                                                                         informativeness (strong-form efficiency) is greater.
                                                                                            A natural question is why blockholders have private information on V , and thus a special role
                                                                                         in governing through exit compared to other traders (e.g., speculators without a stake). Edmans
                                                                                         (2009) microfounds the link between block size, information acquisition incentives, and informed
                                                                                         trading. Regardless of her stake, the investor has the option to engage in costly monitoring to




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                         gather information about V . In the presence of short-sale constraints, a trader with a zero position
                                                                                         has little incentive to acquire information, because if she receives a negative signal, she cannot
                                                                                         trade on it. Up to a point, the larger her stake, the more she can sell upon a negative signal and
                                                                                         thus the greater the incentives to gather the signal to begin with. However, if a becomes too large,
                                                                                         liquidity becomes a constraint: The blockholder will not sell her entire stake upon a negative signal
                                                                                         because the price impact would be too high. Thus, in contrast to some voice theories, the optimal
                                                                                         block size is finite, consistent with the prevalence of small blockholders in the United States.
                                                                                            Similar to voice, the effectiveness of exit depends not only on block size but also on liquidity—
                                                                                         but, while voice theories have differing predictions, Edmans (2009) shows that liquidity (a
                                                                                         parameter for the volume of liquidity trader demand) enhances exit through three channels.
                                                                                         First, holding private information constant, the blockholder trades more aggressively on her
                                                                                         information. Second, holding block size constant, she gathers more private information




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                         because she can profit more from trading. Third, because liquidity allows her to sell more upon
                                                                                         negative information, she acquires a greater initial block. One disadvantage of liquidity is
                                                                                         that a given trade size has less impact on the stock price because the blockholder’s informed
                                                                                         trade is camouflaged by uninformed trades from liquidity investors.13 However, the overall
                                                                                         effect of liquidity on price informativeness—and thus the manager’s incentives to maximize firm
                                                                                         value—is positive. Admati & Pfleiderer (2009) do not feature liquidity traders, but transaction costs
                                                                                         reduce the effectiveness of governance through exit. To the extent that illiquidity proxies for
                                                                                         transaction costs, their model also predicts that liquidity improves governance.
                                                                                            A third determinant shared with the voice channel is the number of blockholders, but the effect
                                                                                         works in the opposite direction to that of voice theories. While splitting a block reduces the ef-
                                                                                         fectiveness of voice by exacerbating the free-rider problem, Edmans & Manso (2011) show that
                                                                                         the same coordination difficulties strengthen exit. The threat of selling one’s shares upon man-
                                                                                         agerial misbehavior elicits value maximization ex ante only if it is dynamically consistent.
                                                                                         Once the manager has taken his action, blockholders cannot change it and are concerned only
                                                                                         with maximizing their trading profits. As in Kyle (1985), a single blockholder will strategically
                                                                                         limit her order to hide her private information. In contrast, multiple blockholders trade


                                                                                         13
                                                                                           In the Kyle (1985) model, block size is irrelevant (owing to the absence of short-sale constraints) and information is
                                                                                         exogenous. Thus, the second and third benefits of liquidity do not apply. The first benefit of liquidity is fully offset by the
                                                                                         disadvantage of liquidity, so price informativeness is independent of liquidity. However, with endogenous information
                                                                                         acquisition, liquidity is unambiguously beneficial for price informativeness, even when block size is irrelevant for trading (see
                                                                                         also Edmans & Manso 2011).



                                                                                    30   Edmans
                                                                                    aggressively, as in a Cournot oligopoly (see also Holden & Subrahmanyam 1992). Such
                                                                                    trading impounds more information into P, so that it more closely reflects V , and thus the
                                                                                    manager’s actions.
                                                                                        Other determinants of the effectiveness of exit are not shared with voice. The first is the
                                                                                    manager’s contract—in particular, the weight placed on P versus V . Short-term concerns may
                                                                                    stem from a number of factors: takeover threat (Stein 1988), termination threat (Edmans 2011),
                                                                                    concern for managerial reputation (Narayanan 1985, Scharfstein & Stein 1990), the manager
                                                                                    expecting to sell his shares before V is realized (Stein 1989), the manager considering the
                                                                                    interests of shareholders who expect to sell early (Miller & Rock 1985), or the firm intending
                                                                                    to issue equity (Stein 1996). The greater the manager’s short-term concerns are, the greater
                                                                                    the power of governance through exit. While standard measures of the manager’s incentives,
                                                                                    e.g., his stock and option holdings, measure his alignment with firm value in general (either
                                                                                    P or V ), the driver of the manager’s sensitivity to exit is his alignment with the short-term stock
                                                                                    price in particular. Edmans, Fang & Lewellen (2014) and Edmans et al. (2014) measure




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                    short-term incentives by the amount of equity that is scheduled to vest in a particular period.
                                                                                    This amount is determined by equity grants made several years prior and plausibly inde-
                                                                                    pendent of the current information environment.
                                                                                        A second determinant of exit not shared with voice is the blockholder’s own short-term
                                                                                    concerns. In Edmans (2009) and Edmans & Manso (2011), the blockholder has full discretion
                                                                                    regarding when to sell, but in Admati & Pfleiderer (2009), she may suffer a liquidity shock that
                                                                                    forces her to sell regardless of the manager’s action. An increase in the frequency of this shock
                                                                                    reduces the effectiveness of exit, as the blockholder may sell even if the manager is maximizing
                                                                                    value. Goldman & Strobl (2013) study a blockholder who may be forced to liquidate her shares
                                                                                    before V is realized. To increase the price at which any future liquidation will occur, she has
                                                                                    incentives to refrain from disciplinary exit and to buy additional shares instead. Such price
                                                                                    manipulation is possible only if the firm’s assets are complex, i.e., their value does not become




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                    public during the shareholder’s tenure. Because the manager wishes to encourage price in-
                                                                                    flation, he chooses excessive investment complexity.
                                                                                        In Dasgupta & Piacentino (2014), the blockholder’s short-term concerns arise from a different
                                                                                    source: She is a mutual fund who cares about attracting investor flows. She may not sell even if
                                                                                    the manager has shirked, because selling would signal that her initial decision to buy the firm was
                                                                                    misguided, thereby lowering investors’ perceptions of her ability, and thus their inflows into the
                                                                                    fund. Hence, the threat of exit is weaker. Song (2013) shows that the negative effect of career
                                                                                    concerns on exit also applies in a multiple-blockholder structure. However, he shows that career
                                                                                    concerns can strengthen voice by overcoming the free-rider problem typically associated with
                                                                                    multiple blockholders. A reputation-conscious blockholder will not intervene, because doing
                                                                                    so would signal that she invested in a low-quality stock. Knowing that she cannot rely on her
                                                                                    fellow blockholders to intervene if they are reputation-conscious, a reputation-unconscious
                                                                                    blockholder has greater incentives to engage in voice herself.
                                                                                        A third determinant of exit not shared with voice is the number of firms in which the block-
                                                                                    holder owns a stake. Although most theories (of both voice and exit) consider a single firm, many
                                                                                    institutional investors hold blocks in multiple firms (Antón & Polk 2014; Gao, Moulton & Ng
                                                                                    2014). Edmans, Levit & Reilly (2014) analyze the impact multifirm ownership has on the ef-
                                                                                    fectiveness of governance through exit. With multiple firms, the blockholder may exit a firm
                                                                                    even if it is value-maximizing, to disguise her exit from another underperforming firm as being
                                                                                    motivated by a portfolio-wide liquidity shock. This reduces the manager’s incentive to work
                                                                                    and weakens governance. On the other hand, the existence of multiple firms allows the
                                                                                    blockholder to punish a shirking manager particularly strongly by selling only his firm and


                                                                                                                            www.annualreviews.org  Blockholders and Corporate Governance   31
                                                                                         retaining his rival. If the agency problem is strong, the second force dominates, and so governance
                                                                                         is more effective under multifirm ownership than a single-firm benchmark. Common ownership
                                                                                         also leads to the firms’ stock prices being correlated, even if their fundamentals are uncorrelated. If
                                                                                         and only if the agency problem is strong, this correlation is negative. While standard empirical
                                                                                         studies typically investigate the number of blockholders or the ownership stake of the largest
                                                                                         blockholder, the model generates empirical predictions for a new measure of blockholder
                                                                                         governance—the number of blocks held.
                                                                                             Two other theories show how blockholder trading can exert governance but through a
                                                                                         mechanism different from that of affecting the incentives of an equity-aligned manager. Levit
                                                                                         (2013) combines both exit and voice. Differing from prior theories, voice involves the block-
                                                                                         holder communicating private information to guide the manager’s action, in a cheap-talk
                                                                                         framework. Because the manager cares about private benefits in addition to shareholder value,
                                                                                         he may not follow the blockholder’s recommendation. The option to exit improves the ef-
                                                                                         fectiveness of voice. If the blockholder can exit when the manager pursues private benefits




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                         rather than shareholder value, she becomes less misaligned with the manager. Thus, the manager
                                                                                         is more willing to follow her recommendation. Exit improves governance even if the manager
                                                                                         is unconcerned with P, as it enhances voice. In contrast to Admati & Pfleiderer (2009) where
                                                                                         there is no voice option, Levit (2013) shows that increasing the frequency of the blockholder’s
                                                                                         liquidity shocks can, interestingly, raise her effectiveness in exerting governance. The greater the
                                                                                         frequency of liquidity shocks is, the higher the stock price if the blockholder voluntarily exits,
                                                                                         and thus the greater her willingness to exit if the manager pursues private benefits.
                                                                                             Khanna & Mathews (2012) build on Goldstein & Guembel (2008), where an uninformed
                                                                                         speculator (with an initial stake of zero) may manipulate the stock price downward by short
                                                                                         selling. Such sales will reduce the stock price, fooling the manager into thinking that his investment
                                                                                         opportunities are poor and causing him to disinvest incorrectly; the speculator’s short position
                                                                                         benefits from inducing this incorrect action. Khanna & Mathews (2012) show that a block-




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                         holder with a sufficient stake will have incentives to buy to counteract the speculator’s bear raid.
                                                                                         Even if such purchases incur trading losses, these are outweighed by the benefits of inducing the
                                                                                         correct investment decision if a is sufficiently high. Interestingly, an increase in the blockholder’s
                                                                                         private information may weaken governance, as it may encourage her to trade on her in-
                                                                                         formation to maximize trading profits, rather than counteract the bear raid.


                                                                                         2.3. Theories of the Costs of Blockholders
                                                                                         In addition to creating value through governing through voice or exit, blockholders can also re-
                                                                                         duce firm value. In Burkart, Gromb & Panunzi (1997), as in other voice theories, intervention
                                                                                         is ex post desirable, because it ensures that the value-maximizing project is taken. However,
                                                                                         the ex ante threat of intervention reduces the manager’s incentive to exert effort to find out
                                                                                         about potential projects, because he fears that his desired project (which maximizes private
                                                                                         benefits rather than firm value) will not be implemented. Thus, even in an intervention model,
                                                                                         the optimal block size can be finite. A similar overmonitoring result arises in Pagano & Röell
                                                                                         (1998), where a founding owner-manager chooses shareholder structure when going public.
                                                                                         He wishes to maximize firm value, plus his private benefits, minus the monitoring costs borne
                                                                                         by the new blockholder (as she will demand a price discount to offset these costs). However,
                                                                                         when making her monitoring decision, the blockholder will trade off only the effect on firm
                                                                                         value and the cost of monitoring, ignoring the fact that monitoring will reduce private benefits.
                                                                                         Thus, the founder again chooses a lower block size. (Unlike in Burkart, Gromb & Panunzi (1997),
                                                                                         here firm value is monotonically increasing in a; instead, a finite a arises because the founder is not


                                                                                    32   Edmans
                                                                                    maximizing firm value.) Bolton & von Thadden (1998) identify a different cost of large block-
                                                                                    holders: A greater block size a lowers the free float 1 – a and reduces liquidity.
                                                                                       The above costs exist even though the blockholder maximizes firm value ex post. More-
                                                                                    over, the blockholder can lower firm value if she pursues her own private benefits—utility
                                                                                    accruing to the blockholder that is not shared with minority investors. Note that private
                                                                                    benefits need not be at the expense of either other shareholders, such as prestige from owning
                                                                                    a stake in a sports team, or production synergies with another company controlled by the
                                                                                    blockholder. Barclay & Holderness (1992) find that block trades that occur at a premium to
                                                                                    the postannouncement exchange price (thus implying private benefits of control) also lead to
                                                                                    an increase in the stock price. This result suggests that private benefits either are not at the
                                                                                    expense of shareholders or are outweighed by the governance benefits.
                                                                                       However, some forms of private benefits may reduce firm value. First, the blockholder may
                                                                                    tunnel corporate resources away from the firm, for example, through inducing it to engage in
                                                                                    business relationships with her other companies at unfavorable terms. Second, her voting




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                    decisions may be conflicted: A labor union pension fund may vote for labor-friendly directors
                                                                                    (Agrawal 2012), or a mutual fund may side with underperforming management to preserve
                                                                                    business ties (Davis & Kim 2007). Third, the blockholder’s large stakes may cause her to be
                                                                                    concerned about idiosyncratic risk (unlike other shareholders) and induce the firm to forgo
                                                                                    risky, value-creating investments (Dhillon & Rossetto 2014).
                                                                                       Theorists have modeled the implications of private benefit extraction for blockholder struc-
                                                                                    ture. Zwiebel (1995) shows that, when blockholders can extract private benefits, the presence
                                                                                    of a majority investor deters other blockholders from forming, as they will not be able to
                                                                                    obtain private benefits of control given the presence of the majority shareholder. Thus, large
                                                                                    shareholders “create their own space.” In Zwiebel (1995), shareholder structure is privately
                                                                                    chosen by the blockholders , but in Bennedsen & Wolfenzon (2000), it is chosen by a founding
                                                                                    entrepreneur when going public. The founder brings in outside blockholders to dilute his own




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                    power and commit to extracting few private benefits, thus allowing him to sell his equity at
                                                                                    a higher price. In Dhillon & Rossetto (2014), the initial owner brings in outside blockholders
                                                                                    who have stakes smaller than his, and thus will vote for risky, value-creating projects. This in
                                                                                    turn increases the price that diversified shareholders are willing to pay for their stake.


                                                                                    3. THE EVIDENCE
                                                                                    We now turn to empirical evidence of the relationship between large shareholders and firm
                                                                                    characteristics. Let F denote a firm characteristic such as profitability and B either a blockholder
                                                                                    action (e.g., the decision to intervene or trade) or a measure of blockholdings. Empiricists have
                                                                                    used a variety of measures, such as the presence of a blockholder, the ownership of the largest
                                                                                    blockholder, the number of blockholders, or the total ownership of all blockholders.
                                                                                        The theoretical literature generates two broad sets of empirical implications. The first (I1)
                                                                                    is the effect of F on B: the firm characteristics that determine blockholder presence or actions.
                                                                                    The second (I2) is the effect of B on F: the impact of blockholder presence or actions on firm
                                                                                    outcomes, such as profitability. The two-way relationship between blockholders and firm
                                                                                    variables highlights the first challenge to testing these theories: Identifying causal effects is
                                                                                    difficult. In addition to simultaneity, another problem is that omitted variables may jointly
                                                                                    affect both F and B. Several strategies have been attempted to achieve identification. None is
                                                                                    watertight, but each helps to partially move our priors toward an understanding of the deter-
                                                                                    minants and consequences of blockholders. I summarize two of the many potential strategies here.



                                                                                                                           www.annualreviews.org  Blockholders and Corporate Governance   33
                                                                                             The first approach, as with any endogeneity problem, is to find a source of exogenous varia-
                                                                                         tion in the independent variable of interest (B or F). For example, instrumenting for B, or using a
                                                                                         natural experiment that provides exogenous variation in B, will help identify the effects of
                                                                                         blockholders on firm outcomes (I2). However, finding exogenous variation in blockholders
                                                                                         is particularly challenging, because many variables that affect B will also affect F directly.
                                                                                         Although Becker, Cronqvist & Fahlenbrach (2011) instrument for individual blockholders,
                                                                                         I am not aware of instruments for blockholders in general. Isolating exogenous variation in F,
                                                                                         to identify the determinants of blockholder presence (I1), is similarly challenging. A related
                                                                                         approach is to instrument for a firm characteristic that affects firm outcomes F and to show
                                                                                         that the strength of the effect depends on the level of blockholdings. This method moves us
                                                                                         toward identifying the effect of B on F (I2), although it may be that B proxies for an omitted
                                                                                         variable.
                                                                                             A second strategy is to analyze the relationship between F (B) and lagged B (F). The use of
                                                                                         lagged variables helps mitigate, but does not eliminate, concerns of simultaneity bias. For




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                         example, changes in blockholdings may occur in anticipation of future changes in F, rather
                                                                                         than being their cause. As a result, I2 is not identified. Furthermore, omitted variables may
                                                                                         drive both B and future F, because their various determinants may be persistent. These
                                                                                         concerns can be attenuated by an event-study approach that analyzes how firm value changes
                                                                                         within a small window surrounding a blockholder action: It is unlikely that the blockholder
                                                                                         took her action anticipating that firm value would improve in a specific window, and any
                                                                                         anticipation of the event would bias event-study returns toward zero. However, this approach
                                                                                         can study only blockholders’ effects on firm value, rather than other outcomes (e.g., changes in
                                                                                         profitability). To investigate the impact of blockholder voice on other firm outcomes, researchers
                                                                                         can study how these outcomes differ according to whether the activism was successful versus
                                                                                         unsuccessful or hostile versus nonhostile. However, this approach cannot be used to study the
                                                                                         effects of entry or exit, and omitted variables and reverse causality remain important concerns.




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                         For example, a blockholder may choose not to be hostile if it is likely that the desired changes
                                                                                         will be made anyway.
                                                                                             Turning to I1, linking F to the level of future blockholdings will not identify causality from
                                                                                         F to blockholdings: Current blockholdings may cause current F and may also cause future
                                                                                         blockholdings because they are persistent. In contrast, it is less likely (although far from im-
                                                                                         possible) that a link between F and future changes in blockholdings (i.e., blockholder entry or exit)
                                                                                         or actions (e.g., intervention) results from reverse causality, because such events are typically
                                                                                         difficult to predict and nonpersistent. However, we still have the problem that omitted variables
                                                                                         may drive both F and the event.
                                                                                             In addition to endogeneity, which is a concern in almost all corporate finance settings, three
                                                                                         further empirical challenges arise when testing blockholder theories. One is that theory empha-
                                                                                         sizes that governance can occur through threats or actions that are typically unobservable to the
                                                                                         empiricist. For example, in the voice model of Shleifer & Vishny (1986), jawboning may involve
                                                                                         writing private letters to firm management; in exit theories, the mere threat of selling shares may
                                                                                         be sufficient to induce the manager to maximize value. One solution is to survey blockholders on
                                                                                         the governance mechanisms they use (McCahery, Sautner & Starks 2011); although a survey
                                                                                         cannot identify the effect of these mechanisms, it can shed light on which channels blockholders
                                                                                         employ in practice. Another solution is to obtain nonpublic sources of information on
                                                                                         blockholder governance, such as private letters to management (Carleton, Nelson & Weisbach
                                                                                         1998; Becht et al. 2009).
                                                                                             A second challenge when testing blockholder theories is that there is no unambiguous defi-
                                                                                         nition of a blockholder. In theory, a blockholder is any investor who has sufficient incentive to


                                                                                    34   Edmans
                                                                                    monitor management. There are two sources of ambiguity when applying this concept empir-
                                                                                    ically. The first is what type of investor will constitute a blockholder if she acquires a sufficient
                                                                                    stake. Although it seems relatively clear that an officer should not be classified as an outside
                                                                                    blockholder, as she is unlikely to exert governance on management, how a nonofficer director
                                                                                    should be treated is unclear. Even some investors who are neither officers nor directors may not
                                                                                    engage in governance, such as an employee share ownership plan or index fund.
                                                                                       The second source of ambiguity is the stake required for classification as a blockholder. In
                                                                                    the United States, a blockholder is typically defined as a 5% shareholder. However, rather
                                                                                    than being motivated by theory, this definition arises because investors are required to file
                                                                                    a Schedule 13 disclosure upon crossing a 5% threshold. Thus, unless otherwise stated, the
                                                                                    papers reviewed below study the United States and define a blockholder as a nonofficer who
                                                                                    owns a stake of at least 5%.
                                                                                       In theory, block size matters for two reasons: It affects the incentives to monitor in both
                                                                                    voice and exit models and, in voice models specifically, the ability to engage in intervention.




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                    Starting with the latter, the percentage stake determines a blockholder’s share of voting rights
                                                                                    and ability to intervene. However, the required stake to have effective control differs across
                                                                                    firms (rather than being a blanket 5%) and will depend on factors such as the stakes held by
                                                                                    management and other blockholders. Moving to the former, in theory models, monitoring
                                                                                    incentives change continuously with a; there is no discontinuity at 5% or any other level, in
                                                                                    contrast to the discontinuous definitions of blockholders commonly used. In practice, investors
                                                                                    may cluster just below 5% to avoid disclosure, and thus be missed by Schedule 13 filings.
                                                                                    Moreover, if blockholder governance has a percentage, rather than dollar, effect on firm value, the
                                                                                    relevant measure of block size is the dollar, rather than percentage, stake (Baker & Hall 2004
                                                                                    and Edmans, Gabaix & Landier 2009 make this point in relation to the appropriate measure
                                                                                    of CEO incentives). In a large firm, a small percentage block may translate into a large dollar
                                                                                    block, which provides strong monitoring incentives. Some of the studies discussed below




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                    study institutional ownership using 13F filings (which identify large stakes below the 5%
                                                                                    threshold), rather than 5% blockholders using Schedule 13 filings. Furthermore, if block-
                                                                                    holders face constraints on the total amount of monitoring that they can undertake for their
                                                                                    portfolio (e.g., due to time or resource limitations), an investor’s holding in one firm as
                                                                                    a percentage of her overall portfolio becomes a relevant measure of governance (Ekholm &
                                                                                    Maury 2014).
                                                                                       A third challenge when testing blockholder theories is that blockholders are a heteroge-
                                                                                    neous class of many different types, each with their own determinants and consequences.
                                                                                    Thus, even if we are clear on our definition on what constitutes a blockholder, studying these
                                                                                    blockholders in aggregate may miss interesting relationships that exist with individual block-
                                                                                    holder classes.
                                                                                       Below, I begin by reviewing evidence consistent with the idea that blockholders affect
                                                                                    firm outcomes. Such effects may result from voice, exit, or the costs of blockholders. I then
                                                                                    move to specific evidence on each of the three mechanisms.


                                                                                    3.1. Evidence on Blockholders and Firm Outcomes
                                                                                    Perhaps the simplest piece of evidence in favor of blockholders exerting governance is their sheer
                                                                                    prevalence: Holderness (2009) finds that the vast majority of firms around the world have either
                                                                                    inside or outside blockholders. From a Darwinian perspective, if blockholders did not improve
                                                                                    firm value, then dispersed ownership should be much more common given the risk-sharing
                                                                                    advantages.


                                                                                                                            www.annualreviews.org  Blockholders and Corporate Governance   35
                                                                                             A second piece of evidence is the importance of blockholder identity. If blockholders did not
                                                                                         engage in governance, firm value would be unaffected by who owns a particular block. Barclay &
                                                                                         Holderness (1991) find that trades of large blocks between investors (insiders or outsiders) lead to
                                                                                         a 16% increase in market value. They interpret this result as the block being reallocated to a more
                                                                                         effective monitor.14 Holderness & Sheehan (1988) show that trades of majority blocks owned by
                                                                                         insiders or outsiders similarly raise stock prices. These results are consistent with blockholders
                                                                                         governing through voice and/or exit and with the benefits of governance outweighing any costs
                                                                                         associated with blockholders.
                                                                                             Researchers also study the correlation between blockholdings and specific firm outcomes,
                                                                                         although it is typically difficult to assign causality. Holderness & Sheehan (1988) find that,
                                                                                         compared with matched, diffusely held firms, firms with majority blockholders exhibit in-
                                                                                         significant differences in investment, accounting returns, Tobin’s Q, leverage, and the fre-
                                                                                         quency of corporate control transactions. McConnell & Servaes (1990) and Mehran (1995)
                                                                                         document no correlation between outside block ownership and firm value; Mehran (1995)




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                         also finds no link with return on assets. These results need not imply that blockholders have
                                                                                         no effect on firm value: If block size is always chosen at the optimal level to maximize firm
                                                                                         value, there should be no relationship when controlling for the joint determinants of block-
                                                                                         holdings and firm value, as noted by Demsetz & Lehn (1985) in the context of managerial
                                                                                         ownership. However, because blockholdings are chosen by the blockholder rather than the
                                                                                         firm, the empirically observed block size is likely to be the one that maximizes the blockholder’s
                                                                                         payoff rather than firm value.15 Thus, private decisions will move the empirically observed
                                                                                         block size to or from the firm value optimum and generate correlations with firm value. Wruck
                                                                                         (1989) finds that increases in ownership concentration resulting from private sales of equity,
                                                                                         which are unlikely to be motivated by information because the purchaser undertakes due
                                                                                         diligence, lead to positive (negative) announcement returns for low (moderate) levels of initial
                                                                                         concentration. This result is consistent with the concave relationship between block size and




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                         firm value predicted by the voice theory of Burkart, Gromb & Panunzi (1997) and the exit
                                                                                         theory of Edmans (2009).
                                                                                             Studying long- rather than short-run returns, Cremers & Nair (2005) find that a portfolio that
                                                                                         buys (sells) firms with the highest (lowest) level of takeover vulnerability generates an annualized
                                                                                         return of 10–15% only when public pension fund ownership is also high. This finding suggests that
                                                                                         external (blockholder) and internal governance are complements and that this relationship is not
                                                                                         immediately capitalized by the market.
                                                                                             Moving to international evidence on the correlation between outside block ownership and
                                                                                         firm value, Lins (2003) studies 18 emerging markets and finds that Tobin’s Q is positively
                                                                                         related to the fraction of control rights held by nonmanagement blockholders in aggregate.
                                                                                         This correlation is particularly strong in countries with low investor protection, in which
                                                                                         corporate governance is likely more important. Claessens et al. (2002) analyze eight East Asian
                                                                                         economies. When the largest blockholder is a widely held corporation or financial institution



                                                                                         14
                                                                                           As explained in Section 2.2, such a trade is likely not motivated by overvaluation as in “exit” theories, given that the
                                                                                         purchaser engages in extensive due diligence. However, it may lead to the block being transferred to a new owner who is more
                                                                                         able to engage in disciplinary exit in the future. Similarly, because the seller is likely to be informed, it is unlikely that the stock
                                                                                         price increase arises because the trade signals that the firm is undervalued.
                                                                                         15
                                                                                           The blockholder’s objective function will differ from firm value for a number of reasons. First, the blockholder captures only
                                                                                         a of firm value. Second, she benefits from trading profits, but such profits do not affect firm value as they are earned at the
                                                                                         expense of small shareholders. Third, she may acquire too small a stake (from a governance perspective) to reduce the
                                                                                         idiosyncratic risk she has to bear (Admati, Pfleiderer & Zechner 1994).



                                                                                    36   Edmans
                                                                                    (and thus an outsider), the market-to-book ratio is increasing in her cash flow ownership and
                                                                                    independent of the wedge between her control rights and cash flow ownership. In contrast, when
                                                                                    the largest blockholder is a family or the state, valuations are negatively related to this wedge.
                                                                                    These results suggest that the private benefits of control are low for outside blockholders, relative
                                                                                    to insiders.
                                                                                        Turning to the predictions of multiple blockholder theories, Konijn, Kräussl & Lucas (2011)
                                                                                    find a negative correlation between outside blockholder dispersion (proxied by the Herfindahl
                                                                                    index) and firm value. Their results support single-blockholder models in which firm value is
                                                                                    increasing in the ownership of the largest blockholder. However, their results are inconsistent with
                                                                                    the model of Edmans & Manso (2011) in which blockholder dispersion is desirable (up to a point)
                                                                                    in situations where exit is an effective governance mechanism.
                                                                                        The insignificant results of Holderness & Sheehan (1988), McConnell & Servaes (1990),
                                                                                    and Mehran (1995) may also arise because they study blockholders in aggregate. Cronqvist &
                                                                                    Fahlenbrach (2009) disaggregate the data and study the importance of blockholder identity by




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                    identifying fixed effects for different classes of outside blockholders. They find significant
                                                                                    blockholder fixed effects for various firm variables, such as investment and financial policies,
                                                                                    accounting performance, and executive compensation. The effects are strongest for activists,
                                                                                    pension funds, and corporations and weakest for banks, money managers, and insurance
                                                                                    companies. Because increases in, for example, investment or leverage may be either good or
                                                                                    bad for firm value, these results are consistent with voice, exit, or the costs of blockholders.
                                                                                    Clifford & Lindsey (2013) find that blockholder types who are typically associated with
                                                                                    activism (e.g., hedge funds as opposed to mutual funds) are associated with greater event study
                                                                                    returns to Schedule 13 filings, greater improvements in profitability, and a greater increase in
                                                                                    the performance sensitivity of CEO pay.
                                                                                        Although the above results could stem from blockholders either causing a change in cor-
                                                                                    porate policies through exerting governance or selecting firms based on expected future




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                    changes in corporate policies, Becker, Cronqvist & Fahlenbrach (2011) use the density of wealthy
                                                                                    individuals in a firm’s headquarter state as an instrument for individual blockholders. Block-
                                                                                    holders increase firm performance and shareholder payouts, and they reduce investment, cash
                                                                                    holdings, executive pay, and liquidity.16 Crane, Michenaud & Weston (2014) use inclusion in
                                                                                    the Russell 2000 vs. Russell 1000 as an instrument for institutional ownership. Their identi-
                                                                                    fication arises from the largest firms of the Russell 2000 having greater weights within their
                                                                                    index than the smallest firms of the Russell 1000, and they find that the former have higher
                                                                                    institutional ownership. Instrumented institutional ownership leads to higher dividend pay-
                                                                                    ments, share repurchases and operating performance, and lower CEO pay. The results are not
                                                                                    driven by activist investors, providing evidence for governance through exit. A contemporaneous
                                                                                    paper by Mullins (2014) uses the different methodology of a fuzzy regression discontinuity design.
                                                                                    He uses the proprietary market capitalization measure, which Russell uses to determine index
                                                                                    assignment, as an instrument for index inclusion. Under this approach, he finds that inclusion in
                                                                                    the Russell 1000 (rather than Russell 2000) is associated with higher institutional ownership
                                                                                    concentration, higher CEO pay-performance sensitivity, a higher likelihood of subsequent CEO
                                                                                    turnover, and lower capital expenditures.
                                                                                        Some papers find a negative correlation between blockholders and myopic actions. These
                                                                                    results are consistent with the Edmans (2009) model of exit and investment, but they could also be



                                                                                    16
                                                                                      The negative impact on liquidity is consistent with the negative correlations between ownership concentration and liquidity
                                                                                    found by Heflin & Shaw (2000) and Rubin (2007).



                                                                                                                                      www.annualreviews.org  Blockholders and Corporate Governance                 37
                                                                                         consistent with a voice theory in which myopia is the main agency problem. Dechow, Sloan &
                                                                                         Sweeney (1996) and Farber (2005) find that firms that fraudulently manipulate earnings
                                                                                         have lower outside blockholdings. Burns, Kedia & Lipson (2010) study institutional own-
                                                                                         ership (rather than blockholdings) using 13F filings and find that institutional ownership con-
                                                                                         centration, measured by the Herfindahl index, is negatively correlated with financial restatements.
                                                                                         Baysinger, Kosnik & Turk (1991) document a positive correlation between institutional own-
                                                                                         ership concentration and R&D, and Lee (2005) shows a positive link between total blockholder
                                                                                         ownership and patents. Atanassov (2013) shows that the presence of an outside blockholder
                                                                                         reduces the negative impact of antitakeover legislation on patent citations. Aghion, Van Reenen &
                                                                                         Zingales (2013) use S&P 500 index inclusion as an instrument for total institutional ownership
                                                                                         and find a positive effect on citation-weighted patents.


                                                                                         3.2. Evidence Specific To Voice/Intervention




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                         While the above results could be consistent with voice or exit, the survey of McCahery,
                                                                                         Sautner & Starks (2011) provides evidence on the specific channels of voice that blockholders
                                                                                         employ. In order of frequency, they show that blockholders vote against management at the
                                                                                         annual general meeting (AGM), initiate discussions with the executive board, contact the
                                                                                         supervisory board to seek management changes, disclose that they voted against management,
                                                                                         make shareholder proposals at the AGM, make critical speeches at the AGM, initiate lawsuits
                                                                                         against managers, and publicly criticize executive board members. The second and third of
                                                                                         these channels are examples of the jawboning analyzed by Shleifer & Vishny (1986). Duan & Jiao
                                                                                         (2014) show that mutual funds vote against management in proxy proposals, particularly when
                                                                                         Institutional Shareholder Services recommends doing so.
                                                                                             A separate set of papers studies the effect of activist events on firm performance. An early
                                                                                         literature found little evidence that activism by shareholders in general improves firm perfor-




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                         mance. Del Guercio & Hawkins (1999) show that shareholder proposals by active pension funds
                                                                                         lead to asset sales, restructurings, and layoffs but have no effect on stock or accounting per-
                                                                                         formance. Yermack’s (2010, p. 117) survey concludes that, “the success of institutional investor
                                                                                         activism to date appears limited.”
                                                                                             However, the absence of significant results may arise, not because activism does not create
                                                                                         value, but because these studies cover blockholders whose expertise does not lie in activism or who
                                                                                         face barriers to activism. Diversification requirements hinder mutual funds from acquiring the
                                                                                         large positions needed to exercise control,17 and “prudent man” rules constrain pension funds
                                                                                         from acquiring stakes in troubled firms in need of intervention (Del Guercio 1996). Even if not
                                                                                         legally restricted, a blockholder may choose not to engage in activism owing to a conflict of
                                                                                         interest. For instance, a fund may lose its contract to manage a firm’s pension plan if it opposes
                                                                                         management.
                                                                                             Research focusing on blockholders that have both a particular expertise in activism and few
                                                                                         barriers to intervention finds more significant effects. Holderness & Sheehan (1985) document
                                                                                         that the market reacts more favorably to block acquisitions by six controversial raiders known to
                                                                                         engage in activism as compared with a random sample of investors. Bradley et al. (2010) show
                                                                                         that activist institutions successfully force closed-end funds to open end, thereby creating
                                                                                         value through the elimination of the closed-end fund discount. Moreover, activism attempts



                                                                                          Under the Investment Company Act of 1940, a “diversified” mutual fund can, with respect to 75% of its portfolio, have no
                                                                                         17

                                                                                         more than 5% invested in any one security and own no more than 10% of the voting rights in one company.



                                                                                    38   Edmans
                                                                                    became particularly frequent after the 1992 proxy form that reduced the costs of commu-
                                                                                    nication among shareholders, demonstrating that coordination costs are an important de-
                                                                                    terminant of intervention.
                                                                                        Recent papers focus on activist hedge funds. Hedge funds have few business ties or regula-
                                                                                    tory constraints that hinder activism and high performance-based fees that induce intervention
                                                                                    even if it is costly. While some hedge funds focus on stock picking, activist hedge funds have
                                                                                    particular expertise in intervention. McCahery, Sautner & Starks (2011) and Clifford & Lindsey
                                                                                    (2013) find that hedge funds are more willing to engage in activism than are other institutions.
                                                                                        Brav et al. (2008) study the 13D filings of activist hedge funds. When acquiring a 5% stake in
                                                                                    a public firm, a shareholder must file a Schedule 13, which can take one of two forms. If she intends
                                                                                    to engage in intervention, she must file a 13D and state in Item 4 the form of intervention she
                                                                                    intends to employ; if she intends to remain passive, she can file a 13G, which is shorter and comes
                                                                                    with fewer disclosure requirements. Although blockholders who intend to remain passive still have
                                                                                    the option of filing a 13D, they are unlikely to do so because of the benefits of filing a 13G as




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                    described in Edmans, Fang & Zur (2013). Brav et al. (2008) find that 13D filings lead to 7–8%
                                                                                    abnormal returns in a (–20, 20) window, consistent with activism creating value. To support the
                                                                                    hypothesis that the abnormal returns stem from activism rather than stock picking (i.e., do not
                                                                                    simply arise because the hedge fund’s block acquisition signals that the stock was undervalued),
                                                                                    the authors find that the abnormal return is 3.9% higher when the hedge fund uses hostile tactics
                                                                                    than when they do not. Moreover, if the hedge fund later exits (reduces its stake to below 5%)
                                                                                    owing to the failure of activism, the (–20, 20) return to the exit is 8% lower than the full sample
                                                                                    of exits. In a similar vein, Clifford (2008) finds that, compared with 13G filings, 13D filings by
                                                                                    hedge fund activists lead to larger event-study returns and improvements in return on assets,
                                                                                    implying an additional return to activism over stock picking (before taking into account the costs
                                                                                    of activism). Turning to operating performance, Brav et al. (2008) find that 13D filings lead to
                                                                                    improvements in total payout, return on assets, and operating margins, and Brav, Jiang & Kim




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                    (2013) document improvements in plant-level productivity using Census data.
                                                                                        Klein & Zur (2009) focus on confrontational activism and find that hedge fund targets earn
                                                                                    10.2% abnormal returns in a (–30, þ30) window surrounding a 13D filing, compared with 5.1%
                                                                                    for other activist targets. Greenwood & Schor (2009) show that the abnormal returns to 13D
                                                                                    filings stem from activists’ ability to force target firms into a takeover, one particular form of
                                                                                    intervention. Both announcement and long-term returns to 13D filings are significant for targets
                                                                                    that are ultimately acquired but insignificant for targets that remain independent. Boyson &
                                                                                    Mooradian (2011) show that hedge fund activism is associated with gains in long-term operating
                                                                                    performance and short-term stock performance.
                                                                                        While the above studies focus on particular institutions that are most likely to be skilled
                                                                                    at activism (activist hedge funds), Boyson & Mooradian (2012) study particular fund managers.
                                                                                    They posit that hedge fund managers with past experience in the hedge fund’s industry of spe-
                                                                                    cialization, or prior portfolio management experience at similar hedge funds, are likely skilled.
                                                                                    Indeed, activism by such managers is associated with higher long-term stock returns, in contrast to
                                                                                    Brav et al. (2008), who document insignificant long-term stock returns (albeit significant event-
                                                                                    study returns) for activist hedge funds in general. The analysis of Boyson & Mooradian (2012) also
                                                                                    highlights the importance of blockholder heterogeneity.
                                                                                        Moving away from hedge funds to blockholders in general, Helwege, Intintoli & Zhang (2012)
                                                                                    find that forced CEO turnover, a particular type of activism, was positively related to the presence
                                                                                    of an outside blockholder in 1982–1994 but not in 1995–2006. Chen, Harford & Li (2007) find
                                                                                    that independent long-term institutional investors are associated with superior M&A performance



                                                                                                                            www.annualreviews.org  Blockholders and Corporate Governance   39
                                                                                         and the withdrawal of bad M&A bids, particularly if they have a large stake. They interpret their
                                                                                         results as stemming from blockholder monitoring.
                                                                                             A quite separate reason why early studies of overt activism by blockholders in general need
                                                                                         not imply that voice is ineffective is that blockholders may engage in activism in ways un-
                                                                                         observable to the econometrician. Carleton, Nelson & Weisbach (1998) study private letters
                                                                                         written to management by TIAA-CREF (a major pension fund) in an attempt to enact cor-
                                                                                         porate governance changes. TIAA-CREF reached agreements with the firm 95% of the time;
                                                                                         more than 70% of these cases occurred without shareholder votes. This result indicates that
                                                                                         looking at actual shareholder votes may miss a significant amount of activism. However, they
                                                                                         find little evidence that such letters increase the short-term stock price, likely because the
                                                                                         letters were usually private. Becht et al. (2009) study the Hermes Focus Fund (a UK pension
                                                                                         fund that also specializes in activism) and find that “engagement rarely took a public form,”
                                                                                         instead occurring through communications with executives and sometimes other share-
                                                                                         holders. Common objectives included selling noncore assets, replacing the CEO or Chairman,




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                         and increasing the cash payout to investors. When the fund’s engagement objectives were
                                                                                         achieved and publicly announced, the mean abnormal (–3, þ3) returns were 5.3%, and these
                                                                                         returns were higher for confrontational than for collaborative engagements.
                                                                                             While these last two papers directly observe behind-the-scenes activism, Fos (2013) estimates
                                                                                         it using a two-stage model that accounts for not only actual proxy contests but also the threat of
                                                                                         such contests. The first stage is a binary choice model to predict the likelihood of a proxy
                                                                                         contest, and the second studies the effect of the threat of a proxy fight on firm outcomes. Using
                                                                                         liquidity as an instrument (making the assumption that liquidity increases the likelihood of
                                                                                         a proxy contest but does not affect firm outcomes), he shows that an increase in the threat of
                                                                                         a proxy fight causes firms to increase leverage, dividends, and CEO turnover and to reduce
                                                                                         R&D, capital expenditure, and executive compensation. Thus, the mere threat of intervention
                                                                                         plays a disciplinary role. He studies all proxy fights, rather than only proxy fights by blockholders.




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                             Turning from the effects of activism to the determinants of activism, Norli, Ostergaard &
                                                                                         Schindele (2014) use the decimalization of the major US stock exchanges in 2001 as an exogenous
                                                                                         shock to liquidity and show that liquidity increases the frequency of proxy fights and shareholder
                                                                                         proposals. Moreover, as predicted by Maug (1998), investors acquire additional shares in
                                                                                         advance of engaging in activism. Back, Li & Ljungqvist (2014) use three different sources of
                                                                                         exogenous variation in liquidity—brokerage closures, market maker closures, and mergers of
                                                                                         retail with institutional brokerage firms—and, in contrast, find a negative effect on hedge fund
                                                                                         activist campaigns and shareholder proposals. While the above papers study actual acts of
                                                                                         intervention, Edmans, Fang & Zur (2013) use a 13D filing to measure the threat of activism.
                                                                                         They use decimalization to show that liquidity has a positive causal effect on the likelihood of
                                                                                         activist hedge funds filing a 13D.
                                                                                             Brav et al. (2008) find that activist hedge funds are more likely to target firms with high
                                                                                         operating cash flows, high return on assets, low total payout, and high executive compensation.
                                                                                         Such firms likely suffer from the agency costs of free cash flow (Jensen 1986), thus increasing the
                                                                                         gains from blockholder intervention. These results are consistent with the theory of Maug
                                                                                         (1998), in which a block only forms to begin with if the gains from intervention are suffi-
                                                                                         ciently high relative to the cost. Brav et al. (2008) and Becker, Cronqvist & Fahlenbrach (2011)
                                                                                         find that blockholders target smaller firms, where it is easier to acquire a significant percentage
                                                                                         stake. Evidence on targets’ prior stock price performance is more mixed. While Klein & Zur
                                                                                         (2009) find that targets of confrontational activism in the United States previously outperformed
                                                                                         the market, Becht et al. (2009) show that targets of the UK Hermes Focus Fund previously
                                                                                         underperformed.


                                                                                    40   Edmans
                                                                                    3.3. Evidence Specific To Exit/Trading
                                                                                    The survey by McCahery, Sautner & Starks (2011) finds that exit is the number one governance
                                                                                    mechanism employed by blockholders. In response to dissatisfaction with firm performance, 80%
                                                                                    of institutions will sell shares, a greater fraction than any of the channels of voice listed in Section
                                                                                    3.2. Duan & Jiao (2014) show that, even in proxy proposals where Institutional Shareholder
                                                                                    Services recommends voting against management—a scenario particularly conducive to voice—
                                                                                    mutual funds sometimes choose to exit.
                                                                                        One piece of evidence loosely consistent with exit is the existence of multiple blockholders.
                                                                                    Owing to free-rider problems, such a structure is suboptimal for voice, but it improves the effi-
                                                                                    ciency of exit as shown by Edmans & Manso (2011). Edmans & Manso (2011) use data from
                                                                                    Dlugosz et al. (2006) to show that 70% of US firms have multiple blockholders (defined as
                                                                                    a shareholder who owns at least 5%). Using a 10% threshold, Laeven & Levine (2007) find
                                                                                    that 34% of European firms have multiple blockholders, Maury & Pajuste (2005) document




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                    48% for Finland, and Western European data made available by Faccio & Lang (2002) yield
                                                                                    a figure of 39%. However, the existence of multiple blockholders is also consistent with voice-
                                                                                    only theories in which a finite individual stake arises owing to wealth constraints (Winton
                                                                                    1993) or risk aversion (Admati, Pfleiderer & Zechner 1994).
                                                                                        More specific evidence for exit studies the link between blockholders and financial mar-
                                                                                    kets. The first set of evidence supports the notion that blockholder trades contain private
                                                                                    information. Parrino, Sias & Starks (2003) show that sales by institutional investors precede
                                                                                    CEO turnover and negative long-run returns. Institutions with larger positions sell their shares
                                                                                    to a greater extent than those with smaller positions, as in the Edmans (2009) model where
                                                                                    larger blockholders are more informed. Bushee & Goodman (2007) find the private in-
                                                                                    formation content of an institutional investor’s trade increases in his stake. Brockman & Yan
                                                                                    (2009) document that stocks with higher total outside block ownership contain greater firm-




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                    specific information. They also recognize the importance of blockholder heterogeneity and
                                                                                    show that this result does not hold for employee share ownership plans, which are unlikely to
                                                                                    trade on information. Gallagher, Gardner & Swan (2013) find that blockholders who trade
                                                                                    frequently generate trading profits, and Yan & Zhang (2009) find that frequent traders are
                                                                                    more informed (in terms of their trades predicting future stock returns) than those who rarely
                                                                                    trade. Collin-Dufresne & Fos (2014a) show that the trades made by 13D filers over the 60 days
                                                                                    before the filing date (which must be disclosed in the filing) are highly profitable.
                                                                                        A second strand of research studies the link between blockholders and price informativeness.
                                                                                    Gallagher, Gardner & Swan (2013) use Australian data that provide higher-frequency information
                                                                                    on institutional investor trades than do 13F filings in the United States. Institutional investor trading
                                                                                    leads to subsequent increases in price efficiency, which the authors in turn link to improvements in
                                                                                    future performance. These effects are stronger in the presence of multiple institutional investors.
                                                                                    Gorton, Huang & Kang (2013) similarly find a positive association between the number of
                                                                                    blockholders and price informativeness. Boehmer & Kelley (2009) use Granger causality tests to
                                                                                    show a causal relationship between total institutional ownership and price efficiency, particularly
                                                                                    when there is low ownership concentration (i.e., more institutional owners). Both the volume of
                                                                                    trading and the level of institutional holdings in the absence of trading cause greater efficiency; that
                                                                                    the level of holdings matters suggests that the threat of exit increases price informativeness.
                                                                                        Third, a number of papers show that blockholder purchases (sales) increase (reduce) the stock
                                                                                    price. These price changes are permanent and thus likely result from the trade conveying in-
                                                                                    formation, rather than temporary price pressure effects due to downward-sloping demand curves
                                                                                    accommodating a sudden change in supply. Scholes (1972) and Mikkelson & Partch (1985) find



                                                                                                                             www.annualreviews.org  Blockholders and Corporate Governance      41
                                                                                         this result for secondary issues, and Holthausen, Leftwich & Mayers (1990) and Sias, Starks &
                                                                                         Titman (2006) document that institutional trading has a permanent effect on stock prices. Collin-
                                                                                         Dufresne & Fos (2014a) find that purchasers by eventual 13D filers, over the 60 days before the
                                                                                         filing date, increase prices.
                                                                                             While the above papers study the effect of blockholders on financial markets (I2), another
                                                                                         financial market test relates liquidity to blockholders. Fang, Noe & Tice (2009) use decimal-
                                                                                         ization to show that liquidity causes increases in firm value, and Bharath, Jayaraman & Nagar
                                                                                         (2013) show that this effect is stronger for firms with greater block ownership, measured by the
                                                                                         share of all blockholders, the share of the largest blockholder, or the number of blockholders.
                                                                                         This result supports the idea that blockholders improve firm value (I2). It is consistent with
                                                                                         liquidity enhancing either exit (Admati & Pfleiderer 2009, Edmans 2009, Edmans & Manso
                                                                                         2011) or voice (Maug 1998; Faure-Grimaud & Gromb 2004) (I1). Supporting the former
                                                                                         interpretation, Bharath, Jayaraman & Nagar show that the link between firm value and the
                                                                                         interaction of liquidity and blockholdings is stronger when the manager has greater equity




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                         incentives.18 This interaction remains strong even in firms where the manager is entrenched and
                                                                                         thus voice is less likely to be effective.
                                                                                             Edmans, Fang & Zur (2013) use decimalization to show that liquidity encourages the
                                                                                         acquisition of blocks (either 13D or 13G filings) by activist hedge funds, as in the exit theory
                                                                                         of Edmans (2009) and the voice theories of Kyle & Vila (1991), Kahn & Winton (1998), and
                                                                                         Maug (1998). Supporting exit theories in particular, the effect of liquidity on block acquisi-
                                                                                         tion is stronger when the manager has greater sensitivity to the stock price. Moreover, liquidity
                                                                                         increases the likelihood that the hedge fund blockholder files a 13G rather than a 13D.19 A
                                                                                         13G filing indicates that the blockholder will not be engaging in activism. Thus, it can suggest
                                                                                         that the blockholder either is abandoning governance altogether or is governing through the
                                                                                         alternative mechanism of exit. Supporting the latter explanation, liquidity is particularly likely
                                                                                         to induce a 13G filing (rather than a 13D filing) where the manager has greater sensitivity




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                         to the stock price. Moreover, a 13G filing leads to a positive event-study reaction, positive
                                                                                         holding period returns for the blockholder, and positive improvements in operating per-
                                                                                         formance, particularly for firms with high liquidity. These authors then extend their analyses
                                                                                         to all activists, which include institutions less effective at intervention or trading than hedge
                                                                                         funds (e.g., owing to flatter compensation structures). The effect of liquidity on block for-
                                                                                         mation continues to hold, but its effect on the choice of governance mechanism and the
                                                                                         consequences of a 13G filing are weaker, again highlighting the importance of blockholder
                                                                                         identity. Gerken (2014) similarly finds no correlation between liquidity and governance
                                                                                         choices for blockholders in general (which includes nonactivists).
                                                                                             Roosenboom, Schlingemann & Vasconcelos (2014) study the link between liquidity and
                                                                                         blockholder governance in the particular setting of M&A. Liquidity is correlated with lower M&A
                                                                                         returns when there is a single blockholder (and thus governance through voice is most likely) but
                                                                                         not when there are multiple blockholders (and thus governance through exit is most likely).
                                                                                         Dimmock et al. (2013) study a different dimension of liquidity: the capital gains tax liability when


                                                                                         18
                                                                                           High equity holdings will not induce the CEO to be sensitive to the current stock price if his equity has very long
                                                                                         vesting periods, but vesting periods are typically short in practice (see, e.g., Kole 1997). A potential measure of
                                                                                         incentives to increase the current stock price in particular is the amount of equity scheduled to vest in the short term (e.g.,
                                                                                         Edmans, Fang & Lewellen 2014; Edmans et al. 2014).
                                                                                         19
                                                                                           Liquidity reduces the likelihood of a 13D filing, conditional upon block formation. However, this effect is outweighed by the
                                                                                         positive effect of liquidity on the likelihood of a block being acquired in the first place. Thus, liquidity has an unconditionally
                                                                                         positive effect on a 13D filing, as documented in Section 3.2.



                                                                                    42   Edmans
                                                                                    selling a stake. Importantly, this liability varies across different investors in the same stock,
                                                                                    depending on when they acquired their stake, thereby addressing omitted variables concerns. The
                                                                                    authors find that a greater capital gains lock-in increases the likelihood of voting against man-
                                                                                    agement (a form of intervention) but reduces the likelihood of exit.


                                                                                    3.4. Evidence on the Costs of Blockholders
                                                                                    There are four main approaches to identifying a negative effect of blockholders on firm value.20
                                                                                    The simplest one is to investigate the correlation between blockholdings and firm value or firm
                                                                                    outcomes (such as liquidity) that are likely linked to firm value. Studies using this approach are
                                                                                    covered in Section 3.1.
                                                                                        A second approach is to estimate the private benefits of control, i.e., the additional value that
                                                                                    blockholders derive from ownership over and above minority shareholders. (Note, however, the
                                                                                    earlier caveat that private benefits need not be at the expense of other shareholders.) Barclay &




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                    Holderness (1989) find that negotiated block trades (owned by insiders or outsiders) occur at
                                                                                    a 20% premium to the market price, reflecting the private benefits of control. The premium is
                                                                                    higher for firms with larger cash holdings, and thus greater potential for expropriation.
                                                                                    Albuquerque & Schroth (2010) study block trades between 10% and 50% where the ownership
                                                                                    of the buyer rises from below 20% to above 20%, which they estimate as the threshold required
                                                                                    to enjoy private benefits. They estimate private benefits as 10% of the value of the block or 3–
                                                                                    4% of the value of the target firm’s equity. Private benefits create a deadweight loss, as firm value
                                                                                    falls by $1.76 for every $1 of private benefit on average. They also find that block trades increase
                                                                                    firm value by 19%, consistent with the finding by Barclay & Holderness (1991) that block-
                                                                                    holder identity matters. Thus, the deadweight loss created by private benefit extraction is likely
                                                                                    outweighed by the monitoring provided by blockholders.
                                                                                        Third, researchers can study firm outcomes where the blockholder is likely to be misaligned




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                    with minority shareholders. Faccio, Marchica & Mura (2011) hypothesize that undiversified
                                                                                    large shareholders will be excessively conservative. They indeed find that the portfolio con-
                                                                                    centration of the largest shareholder is associated with reduced volatility of return-on-assets,
                                                                                    consistent with the model of Dhillon & Rossetto (2014), although they do not investigate the
                                                                                    effect on firm value. To identify causality, they study the effect of a block passing to a successor
                                                                                    (who is typically less diversified than the previous owner) and the effect of acquiring additional
                                                                                    firms to a portfolio (which increases diversification) on the risk-taking of existing firms.
                                                                                    While they suggest that portfolio concentration reduces firm value, Ekholm & Maury (2014)
                                                                                    find that portfolio concentration is positively related with future operational performance and
                                                                                    stock returns, suggesting that investors have particularly strong incentives to monitor a stock
                                                                                    that occupies a large part of their overall portfolio. The contrasting results can be reconciled by
                                                                                    the fact that Ekholm & Maury’s results are particularly strong for small shareholders. Such
                                                                                    shareholders are more likely to face time or resource constraints in monitoring and thus
                                                                                    particularly focus their efforts on their largest holdings.
                                                                                        A fourth approach is to examine the behavior of blockholders. Davis & Kim (2007) study
                                                                                    the proxy voting behavior of mutual funds. At the fund family level, funds with more business



                                                                                    20
                                                                                      I use “firm value” to refer to the value of the firm available to minority shareholders. This equals the market capitalization
                                                                                    of the firm in an efficient market, which Holderness (2003) refers to as “exchange value.” It is a different concept from the
                                                                                    total value of the firm available to all shareholders, which will include private benefits of control accruing to blockholders
                                                                                    as well as to any managers who are shareholders.



                                                                                                                                       www.annualreviews.org  Blockholders and Corporate Governance                   43
                                                                                         ties (aggregated across all firms that they invest in) are more likely to vote with management.
                                                                                         However, at the individual firm level, funds are no more likely to vote with the management
                                                                                         of a client than a nonclient. Agrawal (2012) finds that pension funds affiliated with the
                                                                                         AFL-CIO labor union become significantly less opposed to directors once the union no longer
                                                                                         represents a firm’s workers. Because opposition by AFL-CIO pension funds is negatively asso-
                                                                                         ciated with valuations, this result suggests that they vote for directors who protect workers’
                                                                                         interests at the expense of shareholders.


                                                                                         4. CONCLUSION AND DIRECTIONS FOR FUTURE RESEARCH
                                                                                         The effect of blockholders on corporate governance gives rise to a rich and varied literature,
                                                                                         covering many topics in financial economics. Theoretical models examine topics such as the
                                                                                         free-rider problem, informed trading and market microstructure, strategic information trans-
                                                                                         mission, the trade-off between the ex post costs and ex ante benefits of monitoring, and the role




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                         of managerial and blockholder incentives. Empirical studies have linked blockholdings to both
                                                                                         corporate finance outcomes (such as firm value, profitability, leverage, investment, and risk-
                                                                                         taking) and financial market variables (such as liquidity and price informativeness), analyzed
                                                                                         the market reaction to block trades, and estimated the private benefits of control. Identifying
                                                                                         causal effects for either the consequences or determinants of blockholders is particularly chal-
                                                                                         lenging, and a number of approaches have been employed.
                                                                                             There are several potential avenues for future research. Starting with voice, recent empirical
                                                                                         research has significantly enhanced our understanding of activism through the hand collection
                                                                                         of data (e.g., 13D filings, private letters to management, and surveys), and further data entre-
                                                                                         preneurship will hopefully shed even more light. In particular, although the theoretical literature
                                                                                         typically assumes a single blockholder and an unspecified interventionist action, in reality there
                                                                                         are several types of blockholders who engage in various forms of activism, which meet with




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                         different management responses. Gathering finer data (as recent papers focusing on activist
                                                                                         hedge funds have done) will help us understand which types of activism are successful, under
                                                                                         which circumstances, and by which blockholders. A particular challenge is to identify causal
                                                                                         effects, due to the lack of instruments for blockholder presence or actions. Even a question as
                                                                                         fundamental as the impact of blockholders on firm value remains unanswered.
                                                                                             The exit mechanism implies a new way of thinking about blockholders—as informed traders
                                                                                         rather than controlling entities—that gives rise to a number of new research directions linking
                                                                                         blockholders to microstructure and, more generally, corporate finance to financial markets.
                                                                                         Future theories could incorporate more complex features of informed trading that have pre-
                                                                                         viously been analyzed in microstructure models which treat firm value as exogenous. Current
                                                                                         exit theories consider a single trading round, but in reality there may be multiple periods across
                                                                                         which the blockholder may trade on her information. Moreover, although some existing single-
                                                                                         period models feature the blockholder being forced to trade owing to a liquidity shock (in
                                                                                         addition to voluntarily trading on information), combining liquidity shocks with multiple
                                                                                         periods and multiple informed traders may lead to additional interesting insights, such as the
                                                                                         possibility of front running (e.g., Brunnermeier & Pedersen 2005). Empirical investigation of
                                                                                         exit may similarly benefit from studying variables typically analyzed in the microstructure
                                                                                         literature, such as trading volume, price informativeness, and the extent of information asym-
                                                                                         metries between blockholders and the market (or the manager). In addition, the recent financial
                                                                                         crisis has led to a number of regulatory changes (e.g., short-sale restrictions) that affect financial
                                                                                         markets, and thus may be used to identify casual effects. Holden, Jacobsen & Subrahmanyam



                                                                                    44   Edmans
                                                                                    (2014) provide a comprehensive review of empirical measures of liquidity that may be useful to test
                                                                                    exit theories.
                                                                                        While voice and exit have largely been studied independently, it would be interesting to ex-
                                                                                    amine their interactions theoretically. The few papers that study voice and exit together assume the
                                                                                    same blockholder engages in both, but in reality, different blockholders have expertise in dif-
                                                                                    ferent strategies. Moreover, it would be fruitful to study how voice and exit interact with other,
                                                                                    nonblockholder governance mechanisms. For example, the manager’s contract is a governance
                                                                                    mechanism in itself and also affects the effectiveness of exit. It is typically taken as exogenous but
                                                                                    in reality may be jointly determined with blockholdings. Moving to other nonblockholder
                                                                                    governance mechanisms, Cohn & Rajan (2013) study how the board moderates conflicts
                                                                                    between the activist investor and manager and show that, surprisingly, internal governance (by
                                                                                    the board) and external governance (by the activist) can be complements. The aforementioned
                                                                                    empirical papers by Cremers & Nair (2005) and Atanassov (2013) also study the interaction
                                                                                    between blockholders and other governance channels.




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                        For both voice and exit, a particular empirical challenge is that there is no widely accepted
                                                                                    definition of a blockholder. Although most empirical papers define a blockholder as a 5%
                                                                                    shareholder, theory models do not predict a discontinuity at 5%. Particular attention could be
                                                                                    paid to how the effectiveness of governance depends on block size. In addition, other data
                                                                                    sources such as 13F filings may allow researchers to consider blockholders with stakes below
                                                                                    5%. Such blockholders may still have incentives to engage in monitoring, particularly in large
                                                                                    firms where their dollar stakes will be significant. Relatedly, even though the percentage stake
                                                                                    is the most common measure of block size, the dollar stake may be more relevant, particularly
                                                                                    in settings in which blockholder governance is likely to scale with firm size.
                                                                                        Our theoretical and empirical understanding of both voice and exit may be further enhanced
                                                                                    by a consideration of agency problems at the blockholder level (as some recent papers have
                                                                                    done). Many blockholders are agents themselves, who may have objectives other than share-




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                    holder value maximization. On the theoretical side, although existing papers focus on the
                                                                                    private benefits of control, studying how private benefits affect the effectiveness of governance
                                                                                    through voice or exit would be interesting. Empirically, gathering data on blockholder agency
                                                                                    problems (e.g., the alignment of the blockholder with her target firm’s performance, her
                                                                                    concern for fund flows, and her ownership of other firms with business ties) is a potentially
                                                                                    fruitful avenue.
                                                                                        There is also scope for both theory and empirics to study new categories of blockholders that
                                                                                    have previously been overlooked. For example, index funds are increasingly important: Davis
                                                                                    (2013) documents that, in 2011, BlackRock (proprietor of the iShares index funds) was the
                                                                                    largest shareholder of one in five US-listed firms. They do not engage in discretionary trading
                                                                                    and so cannot govern through exit, and they have historically been seen as nonactivist. However,
                                                                                    they can engage in proxy voting, or their presence can facilitate activism by other blockholders
                                                                                    (Mullins 2014). Similarly, researchers can analyze new practices that blockholders are recently
                                                                                    beginning to engage in, such as empty voting (establishing separate positions in cash flow
                                                                                    ownership and voting rights, for instance, through borrowing shares). See Brav & Mathews
                                                                                    (2011) for a theoretical analysis and Hu & Black (2007) for empirics.
                                                                                        Overall, even though the literature on blockholders and corporate governance is nearly 30
                                                                                    years old, many new and exciting strands have recently been developed as a result of data en-
                                                                                    trepreneurship and the study of a new governance channel. These strands are still in their infancy,
                                                                                    and there is substantial scope for future research to investigate not only channels of blockholder
                                                                                    governance strands in and of themselves, but how they interact with other governance



                                                                                                                            www.annualreviews.org  Blockholders and Corporate Governance    45
                                                                                         mechanisms. I hope that this review will help stimulate this research going forward and look
                                                                                         forward to learning from it.


                                                                                         DISCLOSURE STATEMENT
                                                                                         The author is not aware of any affiliations, memberships, funding, or financial holdings that might
                                                                                         be perceived as affecting the objectivity of this review.


                                                                                         ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
                                                                                         I am grateful to an anonymous referee, Bo Becker, Øyvind Bohren, Jerry Davis, Christine
                                                                                         Dobridge, Vivian Fang, Slava Fos, Todd Gormley, Cliff Holderness, Sudarshan Jayaraman,
                                                                                         Ernst Maug, Giorgia Piacentino, Enrique Schroth, and Luke Taylor for valued comments;
                                                                                         David Schoenherr for research assistance; and Janet Chater for help in preparing this




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                         manuscript.


                                                                                         LITERATURE CITED
                                                                                         Admati AR, Pfleiderer P. 2009. The “Wall Street Walk” and shareholder activism: exit as a form of voice.
                                                                                             Rev. Financ. Stud. 22(7):2445–85
                                                                                         Admati AR, Pfleiderer P, Zechner J. 1994. Large shareholder activism, risk sharing, and financial market
                                                                                             equilibrium. J. Polit. Econ. 102(6):1097–130
                                                                                         Aghion P, Bolton P, Tirole J. 2004. Exit options in corporate finance: liquidity versus incentives. Rev. Finance
                                                                                             8(3):327–53
                                                                                         Aghion P, Van Reenen J, Zingales L. 2013. Innovation and institutional ownership. Am. Econ. Rev.
                                                                                             103(1):277–304
                                                                                         Agrawal AK. 2012. Corporate governance objectives of labor union shareholders: evidence from proxy voting.




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                             Rev. Financ. Stud. 25(1):187–226
                                                                                         Albuquerque R, Schroth E. 2010. Quantifying private benefits of control from a structural model of block
                                                                                             trades. J. Financ. Econ. 96(1):33–55
                                                                                         Antón M, Polk C. 2014. Connected stocks. J. Finance 69(3):1099–1127
                                                                                         Atanassov J. 2013. Do hostile takeovers stifle innovation? Evidence from antitakeover legislation and
                                                                                             corporate patenting. J. Finance 68(3):1097–131
                                                                                         Back K, Li T, Ljungqvist A. 2014. Liquidity and governance. Work. Pap., Grad. Sch. Bus., Rice Univ.
                                                                                         Baker GP, Hall BJ. 2004. CEO incentives and firm size. J. Labor Econ., 22(4):67–98
                                                                                         Barclay MJ, Holderness CG. 1989. Private benefits from control of public corporations. J. Financ. Econ.
                                                                                             25(2):371–95
                                                                                         Barclay MJ, Holderness CG. 1991. Negotiated block trades and corporate control. J. Finance 46(3):861–78
                                                                                         Barclay MJ, Holderness CG. 1992. The law and large-block trades. J. Law Econ. 35(2):265–94
                                                                                         Baysinger B, Kosnik R, Turk T. 1991. Effects of board and ownership structure on corporate R&D strategy.
                                                                                             Acad. Manag. J. 34(1):205–14
                                                                                         Becht M, Bolton P, Röell A. 2003. Corporate governance and control. In Handbook of the Economics of
                                                                                             Finance, ed. G Constantinides, M Harris, R Stulz, pp. 1–109. Amsterdam: Elsevier
                                                                                         Becht M, Franks J, Mayer C, Rossi S. 2009. Returns to shareholder activism: evidence from a clinical study
                                                                                             of the Hermes U.K. Focus Fund. Rev. Financ. Stud. 23(3):3093–129
                                                                                         Becker B, Bergstresser D, Subrahmanian G. 2013. Does shareholder proxy access improve firm value? Evidence
                                                                                             from the Business Roundtable Challenge. J. Law Econ. 56(1):127–60
                                                                                         Becker B, Cronqvist H, Fahlenbrach R. 2011. Estimating the effects of large shareholders using a geographic
                                                                                             instrument. J. Financ. Quant. Anal. 46(4):907–42
                                                                                         Bennedsen M, Wolfenzon D. 2000. The balance of power in closely held corporations. J. Financ. Econ.
                                                                                             58(1–2):113–39



                                                                                    46   Edmans
                                                                                    Berle A, Means G. 1932. The Modern Corporation and Private Property. New York: Macmillan
                                                                                    Bharath ST, Jayaraman S, Nagar V. 2013. Exit as governance: an empirical analysis. J. Finance 68(6):2515–47
                                                                                    Bhide A. 1993. The hidden costs of stock market liquidity. J. Financ. Econ. 34(1):31–51
                                                                                    Boehmer E, Kelley E. 2009. Institutional investors and the informational efficiency of prices. Rev. Financ. Stud.
                                                                                         22(9):3563–94
                                                                                    Bolton P, von Thadden EL. 1998. Blocks, liquidity, and corporate control. J. Finance 53(1):1–25
                                                                                    Bond P, Edmans A, Goldstein I. 2012. The real effects of financial markets. Annu. Rev. Financ. Econ. 4:339–60
                                                                                    Boyson N, Mooradian R. 2011. Corporate governance and hedge fund activism. Rev. Deriv. Res.
                                                                                         14(2):169–204
                                                                                    Boyson NM, Mooradian RM. 2012. Experienced hedge fund activists. Work. Pap., Sch. Bus., Northeastern
                                                                                         Univ.
                                                                                    Bradley M, Brav A, Goldstein I, Jiang W. 2010. Activist arbitrage: a study of open-ending attempts of closed-
                                                                                         end funds. J. Financ. Econ. 95(1):1–19
                                                                                    Brav A, Jiang W, Kim H. 2013. The real effects of hedge fund activism: productivity, asset allocation, and
                                                                                         industry concentration. Work. Pap., Sch. Bus., Duke Univ.




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                    Brav A, Jiang W, Partnoy F, Thomas R. 2008. Hedge fund activism: corporate governance, and firm per-
                                                                                         formance. J. Finance 63(4):1729–75
                                                                                    Brav A, Mathews RD. 2011. Empty voting and the efficiency of corporate governance. J. Financ. Econ.
                                                                                         99(2):289–307
                                                                                    Brockman P, Yan XS. 2009. Block ownership and firm-specific information. J. Bank. Finance 33(2):308–16
                                                                                    Brunnermeier M, Pedersen L. 2005. Predatory trading. J. Finance 60(4):1825–63
                                                                                    Burkart M, Gromb D, Panunzi F. 1997. Large shareholders, monitoring, and the value of the firm. Q. J. Econ.
                                                                                         112(3):693–728
                                                                                    Burns N, Kedia S, Lipson M. 2010. Institutional ownership and monitoring: evidence from financial mis-
                                                                                         reporting. J. Corp. Finance 16(4):443–55
                                                                                    Bushee B, Goodman T. 2007. Which institutional investors trade based on private information about earnings
                                                                                         and returns? J. Account. Res. 45(2):289–321
                                                                                    Carleton WT, Nelson JM, Weisbach MS. 1998. The influence of institutions on corporate governance through




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                         private negotiations: evidence from TIAA–CREF. J. Finance 53(4):1335–62
                                                                                    Chen X, Harford J, Li K. 2007. Monitoring: Which institutions matter? J. Financ. Econ. 86(2):279–305
                                                                                    Claessens S, Djankov S, Fan JPH, Lang LHP. 2002. Disentangling the incentive and entrenchment effects
                                                                                         of large shareholdings. J. Finance 62(6):2741–71
                                                                                    Clifford CP. 2008. Value creation or destruction? Hedge funds as shareholder activists. J. Corp. Finance
                                                                                         14(4):323–36
                                                                                    Clifford CP, Lindsey LA. 2013. Getting what you pay for: blockholder monitoring, CEO compensation, and
                                                                                         firm performance. Work. Pap., Coll. Bus. Econ., Univ. Kentucky
                                                                                    Coffee J. 1991. Liquidity versus control: the institutional investor as corporate monitor. Columbia Law Rev.
                                                                                         91(6):1277–368
                                                                                    Cohn JB, Rajan U. 2013. Optimal corporate governance in the presence of an activist investor. Rev. Financ.
                                                                                         Stud. 26(4):985–1020
                                                                                    Collin-Dufresne P, Fos V. 2014a. Do prices reveal the presence of informed trading? J. Finance. Forthcoming
                                                                                    Collin-Dufresne P, Fos V. 2014b. Moral hazard, informed trading, and stock prices. Work. Pap., Coll. Bus.,
                                                                                         Univ. Illinois
                                                                                    Crane AD, Michenaud S, Weston JP. 2014. The effect of institutional ownership on payout policy: evidence
                                                                                         from index thresholds. Work. Pap., Grad. Sch. Bus., Rice Univ.
                                                                                    Cremers KJM, Nair VB. 2005. Governance mechanisms and equity prices. J. Finance 60(6):2859–94
                                                                                    Cronqvist H, Fahlenbrach R. 2009. Large shareholders and corporate policies. Rev. Financ. Stud.
                                                                                         22(10):3941–76
                                                                                    Dasgupta A, Piacentino G. 2014. The Wall Street Walk when blockholders compete for flows. J. Finance.
                                                                                         Forthcoming
                                                                                    Davis GF. 2013. After the corporation. Polit. Soc. 41(2):283–308
                                                                                    Davis GF, Kim EH. 2007. Business ties and proxy voting by mutual funds. J. Financ. Econ. 85(2):552–70



                                                                                                                                 www.annualreviews.org  Blockholders and Corporate Governance          47
                                                                                         Dechow P, Sloan R, Sweeney A. 1996. Causes and consequences of earnings manipulation: an analysis of firms
                                                                                              subject to enforcement actions by the SEC. Contemp. Account. Res. 13(1):1–36
                                                                                         Del Guercio D. 1996. The distorting effect of the prudent-man laws on institutional equity investments.
                                                                                              J. Financ. Econ. 40(1):31–62
                                                                                         Del Guercio D, Hawkins J. 1999. The motivation and impact of pension fund activism. J. Financ. Econ.
                                                                                              52(3):293–340
                                                                                         Demsetz H, Lehn K. 1985. The structure of corporate ownership: causes and consequences. J. Polit. Econ.
                                                                                              93(6):1155–77
                                                                                         Dhillon A, Rossetto S. 2014. Ownership structure, voting, and risk. Rev. Financ. Stud. Forthcoming
                                                                                         Dimmock SG, Gerken WC, Ivkovic Z, Weisbenner SJ. 2013. Capital gains lock-in and governance choices.
                                                                                              Work. Pap., Div. Finance, Nanyang Tech. Univ.
                                                                                         Dlugosz J, Fahlenbrach R, Gompers P, Metrick A. 2006. Large blocks of stock: prevalence, size, and mea-
                                                                                              surement. J. Corp. Finance 12(3):594–618
                                                                                         Dow J, Gorton G. 1997. Stock market efficiency and economic efficiency: Is there a connection? J. Finance
                                                                                              52(3):1087–129




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                         Duan Y, Jiao Y. 2014. The role of mutual funds in corporate governance: evidence from mutual funds’ proxy
                                                                                              voting and trading behavior. J. Financ. Quant. Anal. Forthcoming
                                                                                         Edmans A. 2009. Blockholder trading, market efficiency, and managerial myopia. J. Finance
                                                                                              64(6):2481–513
                                                                                         Edmans A. 2011. Short-term termination without deterring long-term investment: a theory of debt and
                                                                                              buyouts. J. Financ. Econ. 101(3):621–40
                                                                                         Edmans A, Fang VW, Lewellen KA. 2014. Equity vesting and managerial myopia. Work. Pap., Inst. Finance
                                                                                              Account., London Bus. Sch.
                                                                                         Edmans A, Fang VW, Zur E. 2013. The effect of liquidity on governance. Rev. Financ. Stud. 26(6):1443–82
                                                                                         Edmans A, Gabaix X. 2009. Is CEO pay really inefficient? A survey of new optimal contracting theories. Eur.
                                                                                              Financ. Manag. 15(3):486–96
                                                                                         Edmans A, Gabaix X. 2014. Executive compensation: a modern primer. Work. Pap., Inst. Finance Account.,
                                                                                              London Bus. Sch.




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                         Edmans A, Gabaix X, Landier A. 2009. A multiplicative model of optimal CEO incentives in market equi-
                                                                                              librium. Rev. Financ. Stud. 22(12):4881–917
                                                                                         Edmans A, Goncalves-Pinto L, Wang Y, Xu M. 2014. Strategic news releases in equity vesting months. Work.
                                                                                              Pap., Inst. Finance Account., London Bus. Sch.
                                                                                         Edmans A, Levit D, Reilly D. 2014. Governance and comovement under common ownership. Work. Pap., Inst.
                                                                                              Finance Account., London Bus. Sch.
                                                                                         Edmans A, Manso G. 2011. Governance through trading and intervention: a theory of multiple blockholders.
                                                                                              Rev. Financ. Stud. 24(7):2395–428
                                                                                         Ekholm A, Maury B. 2014. Portfolio concentration and firm performance. J. Financ. Quant. Anal.
                                                                                              Forthcoming
                                                                                         Faccio M, Lang L. 2002. The ultimate ownership of Western European corporations. J. Financ. Econ.
                                                                                              65(3):365–95
                                                                                         Faccio M, Marchica M, Mura R. 2011. Large shareholder diversification and corporate risk-taking.
                                                                                              Rev. Financ. Stud. 24(11):3601–41
                                                                                         Fang VW, Noe T, Tice S. 2009. Stock market liquidity and firm value. J. Financ. Econ. 94(1):150–69
                                                                                         Farber D. 2005. Restoring trust after fraud: Does corporate governance matter? Account. Rev. 80(2):539–61
                                                                                         Faure-Grimaud A, Gromb D. 2004. Public trading and private incentives. Rev. Financ. Stud. 17(4):985–1014
                                                                                         Fos V. 2013. The disciplinary effects of proxy contests. Work. Pap., Coll. Bus., Univ. Illinois Urbana-
                                                                                              Champaign
                                                                                         Frydman C, Jenter D. 2010. CEO compensation. Annu. Rev. Financ. Econ. 2:75–102
                                                                                         Gallagher DR, Gardner PA, Swan PL. 2013. Governance through trading: institutional swing trades and
                                                                                              subsequent company performance. J. Financ. Quant. Anal. 48(2):427–58
                                                                                         Gantchev N. 2013. The costs of shareholder activism: evidence from a sequential decision model. J. Financ.
                                                                                              Econ. 107(3):610–31



                                                                                    48   Edmans
                                                                                    Gao GP, Moulton PC, Ng DT. 2014. Institutional ownership and return predictability across economically
                                                                                         unrelated stocks. Work. Pap., Grad. Sch. Manag., Cornell Univ.
                                                                                    Gerken WC. 2014. Blockholder ownership and corporate control: the role of liquidity. Work. Pap., Coll. Bus.,
                                                                                         Michigan State Univ.
                                                                                    Goldman E, Strobl G. 2013. Large shareholder trading and the complexity of corporate investments. J. Financ.
                                                                                         Intermed. 22(1):106–22
                                                                                    Goldstein I, Guembel A. 2008. Manipulation and the allocational role of prices. Rev. Econ. Stud. 75(1):133–64
                                                                                    Gorton GB, Huang L, Kang Q. 2013. The limitations of stock market efficiency: price informativeness and
                                                                                         CEO turnover. Work. Pap., Sch. Manag., Yale Univ.
                                                                                    Greenwood R, Schor M. 2009. Investor activism and takeovers. J. Financ. Econ. 92(3):362–75
                                                                                    Grossman SJ, Hart OD. 1980. Takeover bids, the free-rider problem, and the theory of the corporation.
                                                                                         Bell J. Econ. 11(1):42–64
                                                                                    Heflin F, Shaw K. 2000. Blockholder ownership and market liquidity. J. Financ. Quant. Anal. 35(4):621–33
                                                                                    Helwege J, Intintoli V, Zhang A. 2012. Voting with their feet or activism? Institutional investors’ impact on
                                                                                         CEO turnover. J. Corp. Finance 18(1):22–37




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                    Hirschman AO. 1970. Exit, Voice, and Loyalty: Responses to Decline in Firms, Organizations, and States.
                                                                                         Cambridge, MA: Harvard Univ. Press
                                                                                    Holden CW, Jacobsen S, Subrahmanyam A. 2014. The empirical analysis of liquidity. Found. Trends Finance.
                                                                                         Forthcoming
                                                                                    Holden CW, Subrahmanyam A. 1992. Long-lived private information and imperfect competition. J. Finance
                                                                                         47(1):247–70
                                                                                    Holderness C. 2003. A survey of blockholders and corporate control. Econ. Policy Rev. 9(1):51–63
                                                                                    Holderness C. 2009. The myth of diffuse ownership in the United States. Rev. Financ. Stud. 22(4):1377–408
                                                                                    Holderness C, Sheehan D. 1985. Raiders or saviors? The evidence on six controversial investors. J. Financ.
                                                                                         Econ. 14(4):555–79
                                                                                    Holderness C, Sheehan D. 1988. The role of majority shareholders in publicly held corporations: an ex-
                                                                                         ploratory analysis. J. Financ. Econ. 20(1):317–46
                                                                                    Holthausen RW, Leftwich RW, Mayers D. 1990. Large-block transactions, the speed of response and




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                         temporary and permanent stock-price effects. J. Financ. Econ. 26(1):71–95
                                                                                    Hu H, Black B. 2007. Hedge funds, insiders, and the decoupling of economic and voting ownership: empty
                                                                                         voting and hidden (morphable) ownership. J. Corp. Finance 13(2-3):343–67
                                                                                    Jensen MC. 1986. Agency costs of free cash flow, corporate finance, and takeovers. Am. Econ. Rev.
                                                                                         76(2):323–29
                                                                                    Kahn C, Winton A. 1998. Ownership structure, speculation, and shareholder intervention. J. Finance
                                                                                         53(1):99–129
                                                                                    Khanna N, Mathews R. 2012. Doing battle with short sellers: the conflicted role of blockholders in bear raids.
                                                                                         J. Financ. Econ. 106(2):229–46
                                                                                    Klein A, Zur E. 2009. Entrepreneurial shareholder activism: hedge funds and other private investors. J. Finance
                                                                                         64(1):187–229
                                                                                    Kole S. 1997. The complexity of compensation contracts. J. Financ. Econ. 43(1):79–104
                                                                                    Konijn SJJ, Kräussl R, Lucas A. 2011. Blockholder dispersion and firm value. J. Corp. Finance 17(5):1330–39
                                                                                    Kyle AS. 1985. Continuous auctions and insider trading. Econometrica. 53(6):1315–35
                                                                                    Kyle AS, Vila J. 1991. Noise trading and takeovers. Rand J. Econ. 22(1):54–71
                                                                                    Laeven L, Levine R. 2007. Complex ownership structures and corporate valuations. Rev. Financ. Stud.
                                                                                         21(2):579–604
                                                                                    La Porta R, Lopez-de-Silanes F, Shleifer A. 1999. Corporate ownership around the world. J. Finance
                                                                                         54(2):471–517
                                                                                    Lee P. 2005. A comparison of ownership structures and innovations of U.S. and Japanese firms. Manag.
                                                                                         Decision Econ. 26(1):39–50
                                                                                    Levit D. 2013. Soft shareholder activism. Work. Pap., Finance Dep., Univ. Penn.
                                                                                    Lins KV. 2003. Equity ownership and firm value in emerging markets. J. Financ. Quant. Anal. 38(1):159–84




                                                                                                                                www.annualreviews.org  Blockholders and Corporate Governance         49
                                                                                         Maug E. 1998. Large shareholders as monitors: Is there a trade-off between liquidity and control? J. Finance
                                                                                              53(1):65–98
                                                                                         Maug E. 2002. Insider trading legislation and corporate governance. Eur. Econ. Rev. 46(9):1569–97
                                                                                         Maury B, Pajuste A. 2005. Multiple large shareholders and firm value. J. Bank. Finance 29(7):1813–34
                                                                                         McCahery J, Sautner Z, Starks LT. 2011. Behind the scenes: the corporate governance preferences of
                                                                                              institutional investors. Work. Pap., Sch. Law., Tilburg Univ.
                                                                                         McConnell JL, Servaes H. 1990. Additional evidence on equity ownership and corporate value. J. Financ.
                                                                                              Econ. 27(2):595–612
                                                                                         Mehran H. 1995. Executive compensation structure, ownership, and firm performance. J. Financ. Econ.
                                                                                              38(2):163–84
                                                                                         Mikkelson W, Partch M. 1985. Stock price effects and costs of secondary distributions. J. Financ. Econ.
                                                                                              14(2):165–94
                                                                                         Miller MH, Rock K. 1985. Dividend policy under asymmetric information. J. Finance 40(4):1031–51
                                                                                         Mullins W. 2014. The governance impact of indexing: evidence from regression discontinuity. Work. Pap.,
                                                                                              Smith Sch. Bus., Univ. Md.




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                         Murphy, KJ. 1999. Executive compensation. In Handbook of Labor Economics, ed. O Ashfelter, D Card,
                                                                                              Vol. 3, pp. 2485–563. Amsterdam: Elsevier
                                                                                         Murphy, KJ. 2013. Executive compensation: where we are, and how we got there. In Handbook of the
                                                                                              Economics of Finance, ed. G Constantinides, M Harris, R Stulz, Vol. 2., pp. 211–356. Amsterdam:
                                                                                              Elsevier
                                                                                         Narayanan MP. 1985. Managerial incentives for short-term results. J. Finance 40(5):1469–84
                                                                                         Noe TH. 2002. Investor activism and financial market structure. Rev. Financ. Stud. 15(1):289–318
                                                                                         Norli Ø, Ostergaard C, Schindele I. 2014. Liquidity and shareholder activism. Rev. Financ. Stud. Forthcoming
                                                                                         Pagano M, Röell A. 1998. The choice of stock ownership structure: agency costs, monitoring, and the decision
                                                                                              to go public. Q. J. Econ. 113(1):187–225
                                                                                         Parrino R, Sias R, Starks L. 2003. Voting with their feet: institutional ownership changes around forced CEO
                                                                                              turnover. J. Financ. Econ. 68(1):3–46
                                                                                         Roe M. 1990. Political and legal restraints on ownership and control of public companies. J. Financ. Econ.




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                              27(1):7–41
                                                                                         Roosenboom P, Schlingemann FP, Vasconcelos M. 2014. Does stock liquidity affect the incentives to
                                                                                              monitor: evidence from corporate takeovers. Rev. Financ. Stud. 27(8):2392–433
                                                                                         Rubin A. 2007. Ownership level, ownership concentration and liquidity. J. Financ. Mark. 10(3):219–48
                                                                                         Scharfstein D, Stein J. 1990. Herd behavior and investment. Am. Econ. Rev. 80(3):465–79
                                                                                         Scholes M. 1972. The market for securities: substitution versus price pressure and the effects of information on
                                                                                              share prices. J. Bus. 45(2):179–211
                                                                                         Shleifer A, Vishny R. 1986. Large shareholders and corporate control. J. Polit. Econ. 94(3):461–88
                                                                                         Sias R, Starks L, Titman S. 2006. Changes in institutional ownership and stock returns: assessment and
                                                                                              methodology. J. Bus. 79(6):2869–910
                                                                                         Song F. 2013. Blockholder trading and monitoring, career concerns, and the bright and dark sides of investor
                                                                                              “long-termism.” Work. Pap., Coll. Bus., Penn. State. Univ.
                                                                                         Stein JC. 1988. Takeover threats and managerial myopia. J. Polit. Econ. 96(1):61–80
                                                                                         Stein JC. 1989. Efficient capital markets, inefficient firms: a model of myopic corporate behavior. Q. J. Econ.
                                                                                              104(4):655–69
                                                                                         Stein JC. 1996. Rational capital budgeting in an irrational world. J. Bus. 69(4):429–55
                                                                                         Winton A. 1993. Limitation of liability and the ownership structure of the firm. J. Finance 48(2):487–512
                                                                                         Wruck K. 1989. Equity ownership concentration and firm value: evidence from private equity financings.
                                                                                              J. Financ. Econ. 23(1):3–28
                                                                                         Yan X, Zhang Z. 2009. Institutional investors and equity returns: Are short-term institutions better informed?
                                                                                              Rev. Financ. Stud. 22(2):893–924
                                                                                         Yermack D. 2010. Shareholder voting and corporate governance. Annu. Rev. Financ. Econ. 2:103–25
                                                                                         Zwiebel J. 1995. Block investment and partial benefits of corporate control. Rev. Econ. Stud. 62(2):161–85




                                                                                    50   Edmans
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Annual Review of
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Financial Economics

                                                                                    Contents                                                                                                            Volume 6, 2014




                                                                                    History of American Corporate Governance: Law, Institutions, and Politics
                                                                                      Eric Hilt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                    Blockholders and Corporate Governance
                                                                                       Alex Edmans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
                                                                                    Corporate Takeovers and Economic Efficiency
                                                                                      B. Espen Eckbo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
                                                                                    Payout Policy
                                                                                      Joan Farre-Mensa, Roni Michaely, and Martin Schmalz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
                                                                                    Corporate Liquidity Management: A Conceptual Framework and Survey
                                                                                      Heitor Almeida, Murillo Campello, Igor Cunha,




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                      and Michael S. Weisbach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 135
                                                                                    Corporate Pension Plans
                                                                                      João F. Cocco . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 163
                                                                                    Bank Capital and Financial Stability: An Economic Trade-Off or a Faustian
                                                                                      Bargain?
                                                                                      Anjan V. Thakor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 185
                                                                                    Contingent Capital Instruments for Large Financial Institutions: A Review of
                                                                                      the Literature
                                                                                      Mark J. Flannery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 225
                                                                                    Counterparty Risk: A Review
                                                                                      Stuart M. Turnbull . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241
                                                                                    The Industrial Organization of the US Residential Mortgage Market
                                                                                      Richard Stanton, Johan Walden, and Nancy Wallace . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 259
                                                                                    Investor Flows to Asset Managers: Causes and Consequences
                                                                                       Susan E.K. Christoffersen, David K. Musto, and Russ Wermers . . . . . . . 289




                                                                                                                                                                                                        v
                                                                                         Exchange-Traded Funds: An Overview of Institutions, Trading, and Impacts
                                                                                           Ananth Madhavan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 311
                                                                                         Stock Prices and Earnings: A History of Research
                                                                                            Patricia M. Dechow, Richard G. Sloan, and Jenny Zha . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 343
                                                                                         Information Transmission in Finance
                                                                                            Paul C. Tetlock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 365
                                                                                         Insider Trading Controversies: A Literature Review
                                                                                            Utpal Bhattacharya . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385
                                                                                         Security Market Manipulation
                                                                                            Chester Spatt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 405




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                         Financialization of Commodity Markets
                                                                                            Ing-Haw Cheng and Wei Xiong . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 419
                                                                                         Forward Rate Curve Smoothing
                                                                                           Robert A. Jarrow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443
                                                                                         Optimal Exercise for Derivative Securities
                                                                                           Jérôme Detemple . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 459


                                                                                         Indexes

                                                                                         Cumulative Index of Contributing Authors, Volumes 1–6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 489




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                         Cumulative Index of Chapter Titles, Volumes 1–6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 491


                                                                                         Errata
                                                                                         An online log of corrections to Annual Review of Financial Economics articles may
                                                                                         be found at http://www.annualreviews.org/errata/financial




                                                                                    vi   Contents
                                                                                             Annual Reviews
                                                                                             It’s about time. Your time. It’s time well spent.



                                                                                    New From Annual Reviews:
                                                                                    Annual Review of Statistics and Its Application
                                                                                    Volume 1 • Online January 2014 • http://statistics.annualreviews.org

                                                                                    Editor: Stephen E. Fienberg, Carnegie Mellon University
                                                                                    Associate Editors: Nancy Reid, University of Toronto
                                                                                                       Stephen M. Stigler, University of Chicago
                                                                                    The Annual Review of Statistics and Its Application aims to inform statisticians and quantitative methodologists, as




 Annu. Rev. Fin. Econ. 2014.6:23-50. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org
                                                                                    well as all scientists and users of statistics about major methodological advances and the computational tools that
                                                                                    allow for their implementation. It will include developments in the field of statistics, including theoretical statistical
                                                                                    underpinnings of new methodology, as well as developments in specific application domains such as biostatistics
                                                                                    and bioinformatics, economics, machine learning, psychology, sociology, and aspects of the physical sciences.

                                                                                    Complimentary online access to the first volume will be available until January 2015.
                                                                                    table of contents:

                                                                                    • What Is Statistics? Stephen E. Fienberg                       • High-Dimensional Statistics with a View Toward Applications
                                                                                    • A Systematic Statistical Approach to Evaluating Evidence        in Biology, Peter Bühlmann, Markus Kalisch, Lukas Meier
                                                                                      from Observational Studies, David Madigan, Paul E. Stang,     • Next-Generation Statistical Genetics: Modeling, Penalization,
                                                                                      Jesse A. Berlin, Martijn Schuemie, J. Marc Overhage,            and Optimization in High-Dimensional Data, Kenneth Lange,
                                                                                      Marc A. Suchard, Bill Dumouchel, Abraham G. Hartzema,           Jeanette C. Papp, Janet S. Sinsheimer, Eric M. Sobel




Access provided by University of Pennsylvania on 01/07/15. For personal use only.
                                                                                      Patrick B. Ryan                                               • Breaking Bad: Two Decades of Life-Course Data Analysis
                                                                                    • The Role of Statistics in the Discovery of a Higgs Boson,       in Criminology, Developmental Psychology, and Beyond,
                                                                                      David A. van Dyk                                                Elena A. Erosheva, Ross L. Matsueda, Donatello Telesca
                                                                                    • Brain Imaging Analysis, F. DuBois Bowman                      • Event History Analysis, Niels Keiding
                                                                                    • Statistics and Climate, Peter Guttorp                         • Statistical Evaluation of Forensic DNA Profile Evidence,
                                                                                    • Climate Simulators and Climate Projections,                     Christopher D. Steele, David J. Balding
                                                                                      Jonathan Rougier, Michael Goldstein                           • Using League Table Rankings in Public Policy Formation:
                                                                                    • Probabilistic Forecasting, Tilmann Gneiting,                    Statistical Issues, Harvey Goldstein
                                                                                      Matthias Katzfuss                                             • Statistical Ecology, Ruth King
                                                                                    • Bayesian Computational Tools, Christian P. Robert             • Estimating the Number of Species in Microbial Diversity
                                                                                    • Bayesian Computation Via Markov Chain Monte Carlo,              Studies, John Bunge, Amy Willis, Fiona Walsh
                                                                                      Radu V. Craiu, Jeffrey S. Rosenthal                           • Dynamic Treatment Regimes, Bibhas Chakraborty,
                                                                                    • Build, Compute, Critique, Repeat: Data Analysis with Latent     Susan A. Murphy
                                                                                      Variable Models, David M. Blei                                • Statistics and Related Topics in Single-Molecule Biophysics,
                                                                                    • Structured Regularizers for High-Dimensional Problems:          Hong Qian, S.C. Kou
                                                                                      Statistical and Computational Issues, Martin J. Wainwright    • Statistics and Quantitative Risk Management for Banking
                                                                                                                                                      and Insurance, Paul Embrechts, Marius Hofert

                                                                                    Access this and all other Annual Reviews journals via your institution at www.annualreviews.org.




                                                                                    Annual Reviews | Connect With Our Experts
                                                                                    Tel: 800.523.8635 (us/can) | Tel: 650.493.4400 | Fax: 650.424.0910 | Email: service@annualreviews.org
