Public Trading and Private Incentives
Antoine Faure-Grimaud
London School of Economics, FMG, and CEPR London

Denis Gromb
London Business School, and CEPR London

    This article studies the link between public trading and the activity of a firm’s large
    shareholder who can affect firm value. Public trading results in the formation of a
    stock price that is informative about the large shareholder’s activity. This increases
    the latter’s incentives to engage in value-increasing activities. Indeed, if he has to
    liquidate part of his stake before the effect of his activity is publicly observed, a more
    informative price rewards him for his activity. Implications are derived for the
    decision to go public, capital structure, and security design.



We consider a firm with a large shareholder and otherwise dispersed
shares, which are publicly traded. The block holder is an insider in the
sense that he can undertake actions that directly affect the firm’s value.
Moreover, the insider might not take all value-increasing actions, as at
least some of them involve a private cost for him. In other words, there is
an incentive problem. The article’s main premise is that public trading, as
part of the price formation process, generates information not only about
exogenous factors affecting firm value, but also about the insider’s activ-
ity. For instance, as a result of public trading, a firm’s stock price will
incorporate the market’s evaluation of how a controlling shareholder
allocates corporate resources.
   We identify two sources of incentives for the insider to engage in
activities that will increase firm value. The first one is his stake in the
firm. Since the insider participates in a value increase in proportion to his
equity stake, a larger stake increases the benefit to him from the firm value
being high. The view that large shareholders affect firm value is indeed
widespread [Shleifer and Vishny (1997)]. They alleviate the free-rider
problem pervasive in firms with passive dispersed investors, unable or
unwilling to affect the firm’s operations, that is, outsiders.

We are grateful for helpful discussions with Lucian Bebchuk, Patrick Bolton, Laurent Germain, Dirk
Hackbarth, Arvind Krishnamurthy, Jean-Charles Rochet, Jean Tirole, and Raman Uppal and for com-
ments from Mike Fishman (the editor), two anonymous referees, and seminar participants at Berkeley,
Besançon, Chicago, Duke, Exeter, the Financial Markets Group’s conference on ‘‘Market Liquidity,’’
Gersenzee, Harvard, HEC, INSEAD, London Business School, LSE, MIT, Montreal, Northwestern
University, Oxford, Princeton, Stanford, Stockholm, Tilburg, Toulouse, UBC, and University of
Maryland. All remaining errors are our own. An earlier version was circulated under the title ‘‘Trading,
Voice and Exit over the Firm’s Life Cycle.’’ Address correspondence to Antoine Faure-Grimaud, Depart-
ment of Accounting and Finance and FMG, London School of Economics and CEPR, Houghton Street,
London WC2A 2AE, UK. E-mail: A.Faure-Grimaud@lse.ac.uk.


The Review of Financial Studies Vol. 17, No. 4 ª 2004 The Society for Financial Studies; all rights reserved.
doi:10.1093/rfs/hhh002                                            Advance Access publication April 2, 2004
The Review of Financial Studies / v 17 n 4 2004



   A second and more indirect incentive effect is provided by the trading of
the firm’s stock. Indeed, the insider’s activity accounts for the possibility
that he will have to sell part or all of his stake before the impact of his
value-increasing actions is publicly observed. For instance, the firm’s need
to raise external funds might result in a dilution of the insider’s stake.
Alternatively, the insider might want to exploit investment opportunities
outside the firm and fund them by liquidating part of his stake. We refer to
this urge to sell as ‘‘liquidity shock’’. Examine first the polar case in which
the insider is certain to have to liquidate his stake. He will participate in a
value increase brought about by his activity only in so far as it is reflected
in the stock price. Conversely, if the stock price contains little information
about his value-increasing activity, then he has little incentive to engage in
such activities. By feeding more information into the stock price, public
trading can thus increase the insider’s incentive. Hence, although the
dispersed shareholders’ activity (i.e., their trading) is not aimed at affect-
ing firm value, it can affect it indirectly.
   This simple insight has several interesting implications. First, it suggests
that public trading can increase the incentives of large shareholders. For
instance, an entrepreneur’s allocation of corporate resources may be
improved when his firm’s stock is actively traded. In that respect, going
public can have a disciplinary effect. Furthermore, the increase in firm
value brought about by going public may sometimes be crucial for the
entrepreneur to find it worthwhile to found the firm in the first place.
Hence entrepreneurship and firm creation may be enhanced by the
existence of an active market for initial public offerings (IPOs).
   The active monitoring and advising incentives of a firm’s close financier
may also be increased by public trading of the firm’s stock (or, more
generally, by the expectation that the stock will eventually be traded
following an IPO). This suggests that an active IPO market may be a
key element for the development of a venture capital industry. These
considerations may be important for the debate over the promotion of
entrepreneurship and the financing of start-ups, a prominent issue, in
particular on the European agenda.
   In a similar manner, an institutional investor’s incentive to oversee
firm’s management may be increased by the information generated by
public trading of the firm’s stock, that is, by market monitoring. This
perspective is in contrast with the view that market monitoring makes
large shareholders redundant as monitors, that is, that market and insider
monitoring are substitutes. It is in even greater contrast (although not in
contradiction as we later explain) with the concern that by making exit
easier, market liquidity reduces a large stakeholder’s incentive to monitor
[Coffee (1991), Bhidé (1993)].
   A second type of implication is that while price informativeness
can enhance the incentive effect of the insider’s stake, increasing price


986
Public Trading and Private Incentives



informativeness and the insider’s stake can constitute conflicting objec-
tives. The insider’s stake is maximized under full ownership, which is
incompatible with the public trading of the firm’s stock. More generally,
ownership concentration and stock price informativeness are likely not to
be independent.
   This in turn suggests a theory of the going-public decision. Firms whose
insiders are more likely to face liquidity shocks (as defined above) are
more likely to go public. Indeed, such insiders put a greater weight on
the price at which they might have to sell their shares, and hence their
incentives rely more on price informativeness. In this view, going-public is
motivated by an informational rather than an immediate financial need.
More precisely, the informational need may itself correspond to the like-
lihood of future financing needs: firms that go public are more likely to
undertake further sales of securities, be they public offerings or private
placements.
   Third, this insight can be extended (under some conditions) to the
choice of securities. On the one hand, direct incentives are best provided
to the insider by a stake whose value is closely tied to firm value, that is, a
value-sensitive stake. For instance, better incentives may be provided by
equity than by a safe debt claim. On the other hand, if the trading of the
firm’s securities is to generate some information, their value should
depend at least to some extent on that information, that is, these securities
should be information sensitive. For instance, trading essentially safe
corporate debt might not generate much information about the insider’s
activity. Hence the optimal choice of securities (and maybe the optimal
design of securities) might strike a balance between value sensitivity
of inside claims and information sensitivity of outside claims. When
the latter objective dominates, a ‘‘pecking order’’ for initial offerings can
arise, in which firms issue publicly traded claims that are information
sensitive. This is in contrast to the standard pecking order hypothesis that
firms issue preferably less information-sensitive securities [Myers and
Majluf (1984)]. One interesting aspect of this theory of capital structure
and security design is that it deals with the securities of both insiders and
outsiders.
   We also explore the possibility for the insider to engage in strategic
trading, that is, to sell or retain his shares in order to exploit some private
information about the firm. Such a possibility is important in our context.
Indeed, the gains from strategic trading depend on the degree of informa-
tion asymmetry, which is itself affected by public trading. By reducing the
level of information asymmetry, public trading might decrease the insi-
der’s reluctance to sell when he has positive information about the firm.
This creates another channel through which public trading affects incen-
tives. Two findings are particularly noteworthy. First, an increase in the
price informativeness does not necessarily increase the unconditional


                                                                           987
The Review of Financial Studies / v 17 n 4 2004



probability of exit. This is due to the feedback effect on effort which
affects the distribution of states. Second, even in the case in which the
exit probability increases, effort increases.
   Our article is related to several strands of literature.
   One of these examines the potential trade-off between liquidity and
control. Coffee (1991) and Bhidé (1993) propose that market liquidity
reduces a large stakeholder’s incentives to monitor by increasing the
attractiveness of the exit option. Instead, modeling liquidity as the ability
to hide one’s trade, Kyle and Vila (1991), Kahn and Winton (1998), Maug
(1998), and Noe (2002) argue that it can foster the emergence of active
investors in the first place. Indeed, the stock’s liquidity allows active
investors to acquire stakes secretly, and thus at favorable terms, and so
capture some of the value increase they will bring about. To focus on our
main point, we assume instead that the insider cannot trade secretly. In
that respect, our analysis is closer to Bolton and von Thadden (1998a,b).
   The idea that stock price information matters to insiders is also
in Fishman and Hagerty (1989). Absent incentive issues, they show that
a firm may want to increase stock price efficiency by disclosing informa-
tion. A more informative stock price allows firms to reap more of the
benefits of efficient investment decisions. In our model, increasing stock
price informativeness requires floating some shares, which has an incen-
tive cost.
   Formally, part of our argument is similar to Diamond and Verrecchia
(1982), and especially Holmstr€  om and Tirole (1993), where the informa-
tion generated by public trading is used to improve the incentive contracts
of employed managers. In our article, the insider’s stake constitutes an
incentive scheme, the power of which is endogenously affected by public
trading. Notice, however, that in our model, it is, key that trading gen-
erates information about the insider’s activity, that is not only about
exogenous noise.
   Close to ours is Aghion, Bolton, and Tirole’s (2004) analysis of the
design of exit options for active monitors. In both our models, the insider’s
exit reduces his incentives, and this effect is mitigated by information.
Moreover, the incentives of the insider and of the potential information
producers (i.e., speculators) are considered jointly. Our articles differ in
several respects. First, we model explicitly information production as aris-
ing from public trading of the firm’s securities. This underlies our analysis
of the going-public decision. Second, we consider the possibility for the
insider’s exit decision to convey information about firm value, which
affects incentives. The main difference, however, is Aghion, Bolton, and
Tirole’s focus on the design of exit options. They assume that the exit
decision itself can be contracted upon initially, and characterize the
optimal arrangement. Instead, we do not consider contracts governing
exit directly.


988
     Public Trading and Private Incentives



        Studying the effect of public trading as a by-product of privatization,
     Faure-Grimaud (2002) examines how stock price information affects a
     regulator’s ability to commit not to expropriate regulated firms.
     Subrahmanyam and Titman (1999) relate the decision to go public or
     remain private to the nature of the information to be generated about the
     firm. We discuss these and other related work later in the article.
        The article proceeds as follows. Section 1 presents the model. Section 2
     relates market trading to an insider’s incentives and studies the going-
     public decision. It also analyzes the role of security design. Section 3
     extends the main result in a setting allowing for strategic trading by the
     insider. Section 4 concludes. Proofs are in the appendix.

1. The Model

     1.1 The framework
     The model has four dates and no discounting. All agents are risk neutral.
     A fraction (1  a) of an all-equity firm is held as a block by a large
     shareholder (henceforth the insider), the remaining a being held by
     dispersed shareholders (henceforth the outsiders).
        At t ¼ 1, the insider can influence the firm’s operating decisions
     because he holds sufficient control rights to be able to do so and enough
     return rights to be willing to do so.1 The insider can exert an unobservable
     ‘‘effort’’ which increases the firm’s value: if he incurs a private cost
     c(e) ¼ e2/2, the firm’s value is V ¼ VH with probability (1 þ e)/2, and
     V ¼ VL otherwise, with DV  VH  VL > 0.2 Hence the firm’s expected
     value (gross of the effort cost) is

                                 V^ ðeÞ  V L þ 1 þ e DV                       ð1Þ
                                                  2
     and the (first-best) level of effort maximizing firm value net of the effort
     cost is DV/2.
        At t ¼ 2, the firm’s value V is realized but is not publicly observed until
     t ¼ 4. Unless the firm is privately held (a ¼ 0), trading occurs between
     liquidity traders, a speculator and a market maker, and a price is formed
     in a simplified model à la Kyle (1985). We assume that the insider cannot
     trade anonymously.
         The aggregate demand of the liquidity traders is dL 2 {d, 0}, with
           d > 0 and Pr [dL ¼ 0] ¼ Pr [dL ¼ d] ¼ 1/2. In general, the volatility

 1
     See Burkart, Gromb, and Panunzi (1997) for a model of the source and limits of a block holder’s effective
     control.
 2
     This formulation implies that a higher effort not only increases the first moment of the value’s distribu-
     tion, but also decreases its second moment. Without our restriction, effort would first increase and then
     decrease the variance of value so that there would still be a parameter region where our results hold. We also
     assume throughout that the parameter values are such that the equilibrium level of effort is always in (0,1).




                                                                                                             989
    The Review of Financial Studies / v 17 n 4 2004



         of the demand originating from liquidity traders will depend on the
         fraction of shares held by outsiders, so that d  d(a). We assume that
         a market for the firm’s stock exists only if the firm is public, that is,
         d(0) ¼ 0, and that d(a) > 0, 8a > 0. We also assume that d(a) is
         continuous over [0,1], differentiable in the neighborhood of a ¼ 0
         and d(0) > 0, and (a) > 0.
        The speculator S can acquire information at a cost k. This cost is
         drawn from a known distribution on (0, þ1) with c.d.f. F, density
         f() > 0, and publicly observed before S decides whether to become
         informed.3 By choosing to incur k, the speculator observes the reali-
         zation of V immediately (at t ¼ 2). Otherwise he remains uninformed.
         Based on his information, he then submits a demand dS for the
         firm’s stock.
        A competitive market maker observes the trade orders, {dL, dS}, but
         not the identity of the trader passing each order.4 He then posts a
         price for the firm’s stock

                                            P2 ¼ E½V j fdL , dS g:                                          ð2Þ
       At t ¼ 3, the insider may be hit by a liquidity shock. For simplicity, he
    has to sell all his shares with probability l. Allowing partial sales does not
    affect the results [Faure-Grimaud and Gromb (2000)]. Otherwise he may,
    but need not do so. We rule out secret trading by assuming that the
    insider’s trade is always observable. For now, we also assume that his
    liquidity shock itself is publicly observed. We do not need to specify here
    whether the insider has any private information.5 Section 3 deals with
    strategic trading, when market participants do not know the insider’s
    motive for trading. Finally, we assume that the buyers have access to
    only public information, so that the stake sells for
                                                    P3 ¼ P2 :                                                ð3Þ
      At t ¼ 4, the firm’s value is publicly observed and the shareholders
    receive their payment. The firm is then liquidated for a value normalized
    to zero.


3
    The assumption that k is publicly observed is only needed when liquidity trade orders can be zero in
    equilibrium. When no trade occurs, the market maker needs to infer whether it is because S is not
    informed and stays out of the market or because S is informed and decides not to trade. If liquidity
    traders always trade some shares, this ambiguity is resolved and whether k is observable is irrelevant [see
    Faure-Grimaud and Gromb (2000)].
4
    In Kyle (1985), liquidity trade orders are drawn from a continuum and only the aggregate order is
    observed. In our simplified version, under the latter assumption, a separating perfect bayesian equili-
    brium would fail to exist because liquidity trades are drawn from a discrete set.
5
    To be precise, the insider has private information about his chosen level of effort, but this is irrelevant at
    t ¼ 3. See footnote 9.




    990
Public Trading and Private Incentives



1.2 Interpretation and comments
We have kept the model general enough to leave it open to several
interpretations. The insider may be an entrepreneur who has retained
control of the firm following an IPO for a fraction a of its equity. Effort
can represent any hard-to-contract investment by the entrepreneur (such
as ‘‘entrepreneurship’’). It can also refer to his choosing to use corporate
resources to generate benefits for all shareholders rather than private
benefits for himself [Burkart, Gromb, and Panunzi (1998)]. If the entre-
preneur incurs a liquidity shock, he has to sell his stake in a secondary
public offering (SPO) or a private placement.
   Another interpretation is that the insider is a close financier of an
entrepreneurial firm, such as its main bank or venture capitalist. In the
latter case, the venture capitalist might have retained a block of shares
after an IPO. Effort can stand for this financier’s advising and monitoring
the entrepreneur, or even its direct contribution to operating decisions.
The insider can also stand for an institutional investor (e.g., a pension
fund) monitoring the management of a large publicly traded company.
   Several interpretations of the liquidity shock fit our model. The shock
may be specific to the insider, as in the case of an entrepreneur who has to
sell out when retiring or transferring control to a more effective party (e.g.,
a larger firm that will better develop and market the firm’s product). Of
particular interest is the situation in which the insider has investment
opportunities outside the firm that he wants to exploit by selling his
stake. For instance, a venture capitalist may need to liquidate its stake
in a firm to fund new ones.
   Alternatively, the shock may be specific to the firm, the operations of
which might require some funding at a time when the insider is unable or
unwilling to provide it. Raising outside finance results in a dilution of the
insider’s stake. For simplicity, we analyze the case of an extreme dilution,
that is, down to zero, but our results extend directly to less extreme cases
in which the liquidity shock results in the insider selling a smaller fraction
of his stake. This encompasses the case of a firm issuing equity [Faure-
Grimaud and Gromb (2000)].
   We assume throughout that the insider cannot trade anonymously. This
is to focus on our main effect, and to emphasize the contrast with some
of the literature on the liquidity-control trade-off. Our model could
accommodate some (limited) secret trading.
   We also assume that potential buyers of the insider’s shares at t ¼ 3
have public information only [hence Equation (3)]. This might seem
restrictive given that in our model, the speculator has access to private
information at t ¼ 2. We rule out the possibility that he buys the shares of
the insider at t ¼ 3 for several reasons. First, we consider our trading
model to be a reduced form for the functioning of a market that aggre-
gates the information of numerous investors. That is, one should think of


                                                                           991
    The Review of Financial Studies / v 17 n 4 2004



    a model with multiple pieces of information, each being acquired by a
    different speculator and eventually being partly reflected into the stock
    price. In that case, without public trading, each speculator’s information
    would be coarser than that resulting from trading. Second, the speculator
    may not have enough resources to buy the insider’s entire stake. More-
    over, given the nature of his information, he may be credit constrained.
    Third, the possibility of speculative profits may enhance the speculator’s
    incentive to acquire information even if he can later participate in private
    sales.6 Finally, this assumption is consistent with the use of a microstruc-
    ture model where all trades are intermediated by market makers: we
    simply assume that this feature applies also to the insider.

    1.3 Trading and price-informativeness
    We first solve for the equilibrium in the market for the firm’s stock, which
    is assumed to exist only if the firm issues equity, that is, a > 0. The
    informativeness of the stock price in equilibrium will depend on both the
    speculator’s strategy and the realization of the random liquidity trades.
    The speculator’s decision whether to become informed will itself depend
    on his ability to avoid that his trade reveals fully his information.
       If the speculator is informed, he will submit dS ¼ 0 when V ¼ VH and
    dS ¼ d when V ¼ VL. Indeed, any other order would be identified by the
    market maker as originating from the speculator, thus revealing the
    latter’s information and ruining his opportunity to realize a trading profit.
    Moreover, submitting dS ¼ d (dS ¼ 0) when V ¼ VH (V ¼ VL) is a
    strictly dominated strategy. For a given trade dS, two types of outcomes
    are possible. If dS ¼ dL, which occurs with probability 12, the market
    maker infers perfectly the direction of the speculator’s trade, and sets a
    price that fully reflects his information. If instead dS 6¼ dL, then the market
    maker cannot determine the origin of each trade and sets the stock price at
    P2 ¼ V ^ ðea Þ, where ea is his anticipation of the insider’s effort. The possible
    outcomes of the trading game are as follows:

                                                                           V ¼ VL                  V ¼ VH

    Pr 12, dL ¼ 0                   Demands (dS, dL)                       (d, 0)                   (0, 0)
                                    Stock price P2                          ^ ðea Þ
                                                                            V                         VH
    Pr 12, dL ¼ d                  Demands (dS, dL)                      (d, d )                 (0, d )
                                    Stock price P2                           VL                      ^ ðea Þ
                                                                                                     V



6
    In fact, allowing for public trading at t ¼ 2 and private sales to informed investors at t ¼ 3 can reinforce
    our results. Indeed, if public trading at t ¼ 2 fosters information acquisition by a speculator to whom the
    insider can sell his stake at its fair price at t ¼ 3, public trading enhances effort at t ¼ 1.




    992
    Public Trading and Private Incentives



       The speculator’s expected profit from informed trading is thus

                                            1 ð1  ea Þ        ^ ðea Þ  V L :
                             pðea Þ ¼                   d  ½V                                        ð4Þ
                                            2    2
       If the speculator is not informed, he submits a demand dS ¼ 0.7
       The speculator will incur the cost k to observe V if he expects trading on
    this information to yield a profit p  k, which occurs with probability
    F(p). Therefore the probability that P2 is informative, which we refer to as
    stock price informativeness is
                                                                    !
                      a    1       a    1     ð1  ðea Þ2 Þ
                  pðe Þ ¼ F ðpðe ÞÞ ¼ F                      d  DV :        ð5Þ
                           2            2          8

    Lemma 1. Taking ea as exogenous, stock price informativeness p
          (i)  increases with the variance of liquidity trades, d, the information
               sensitivity of the firm’s stock, DV, and with shifts in F toward
               lower values of k in the sense of FOSD;
          (ii) decreases with ea.
       A larger d allows speculators to submit larger orders without being
    identified by the market maker, and hence the value of information is
    larger. For our purpose, however, it is sufficient that in the absence of
    liquidity trades or when the stock is riskless, the speculator’s profit goes to
    zero. Point (ii) results from our assumption that effort reduces the vola-
    tility of returns (see footnote 2), thus reducing the value of information.
    Definition 1. We call an increase in the price informativeness function an
    upward shift of the function p(), for given a and DV.
       In our model, the price informativeness function increases with the
    variance of liquidity trades for a given a, d(a), and following a shift of F
    toward lower values of k in the sense of FOSD. We think of these as
    capturing features of the stock market. For instance, a more developed
    financial market may have greater liquidity (larger values of d(a)) and
    more numerous, specialized, and sophisticated speculators (lower values
    of k). In both interpretations, a well-developed stock market might gen-
    erate more information, and hence will correspond to an increase in price
    informativeness relative to a less developed market.8

7
    To be precise, there is an infinity of equilibria in which, when uninformed, S submits any dS and is
    identified. All these equilibria yield the same payoff to all players, and generate the same information.
8
    As a caveat, note that in our comparison, public information is kept constant across markets. This is
    clearly unappealing. For instance, more developed markets may have stricter disclosure rules, making
    private information more scarce and the costs of acquiring it greater rather than lower. Therefore our
    interpretation of more developed financial markets as corresponding to lower values of k assumes that the
    effect of public information does not dominate the ‘‘cost effect.’’ Two remarks may be noteworthy




                                                                                                       993
  The Review of Financial Studies / v 17 n 4 2004



2. Public Trading and Shareholder Intervention
  In this section we highlight that the insider’s incentives are enhanced by a
  larger equity stake, and also by more informative stock prices. We then
  derive implications for the decision to go public and, in a variation of the
  model, for the size of the block that maximizes incentives.

  2.1 Trading and the insider’s incentives
  This section relates the information generated by public trading of the
  firm’s stock to the insider’s equilibrium effort level. Assume that the
  insider incurs a liquidity shock at t ¼ 3 and thus has to liquidate his
  stake. Since the shock is observed, his trade has no informational content
  about the firm’s value and thus occurs at the market price, that is,
  P3 ¼ P2. If the insider anticipates that this price will be fully informative
  with probability pa, and otherwise equal to V ^ a , his expected payoff is

            e2 ð1 þ eÞ                                                                
             þ                                                  ^ a Þ þ ð1  lÞ  V H
                          ð1  aÞ  l  ðpa  V H þ ð1  pa Þ  V
            2      2
              ð1  eÞ                                                             
            þ                                               ^ a Þ þ ð1  lÞ  V L :
                       ð1  aÞ  l  ðpa  V L þ ð1pa Þ  V
                 2
  Maximizing this payoff with respect to effort, we have
                                                                           DV
                               eðpa Þ ¼ ð1  aÞ½1  lð1  pa Þ               :                           ð7Þ
                                                                            2
  Note that unless a ¼ 0 and pa ¼ 1, or l ¼ 0, the insider is bound to exert
  less than the first-best level of effort. Hence an increase in effort would
  also increase firm value. More importantly, this expression underlines the
  dual source of incentives for the insider.
  Lemma 2. Taking pa as exogenous, the insider’s effort level e
       (i) increases with (1  a), his stake in the firm (direct effect);
      (ii) increases with pa (indirect effect).
     Consider first the polar case in which there is no liquidity shock. If
  l ¼ 0, the insider’s effort is e ¼ ð1  2aÞDV . It is thus increasing in the insi-
  der’s stake (1  a) and in the productivity of his effort D2V but does not
  depend on the other parameters. That is, absent the possibility of a


  however. First, some of the greater public information in more developed markets may stem from the
  very activity of speculators (e.g., as opposed to regulation). Second, a change leading to more public
  information might also lower the cost of acquiring private information. Indeed, suppose that an improve-
  ment in regulation makes public some information that would otherwise be private. This amounts to
  reducing the cost of acquiring that information down to zero. It seems logical that it should also affect the
  cost of acquiring those pieces of information that remain private. For instance, speculators might be able
  to combine more reliable earnings annoucements with other information to better determine the value
  of the firm.




  994
    Public Trading and Private Incentives



    liquidity shock, the model boils down to a standard moral hazard pro-
    blem, in which a larger stake leads the insider to internalize more of the
    positive effect of his effort.
       Things are different when the insider can be subject to liquidity shocks.
    When deciding on the level of effort, the insider takes into account that he
    might have to sell his shares at t ¼ 3, before the impact of his effort on firm
    value is publicly observed at t ¼ 4. In the polar case in which the liquidity
    shock is certain, i.e., l ¼ 1, the insider’s payoff depends only on the price
    his stake will fetch at t ¼ 3. Hence he will exert effort only to the extent
    this translates into a higher expected selling price, P3 ¼ P2. If he antici-
    pates the price to be uninformative about his effort (i.e., pa ¼ 0), he has
    no incentive to exert effort. Instead, a more informative price induces more
    effort, as the insider’s payoff is tied more closely to his effort. More gene-
    rally, the insider has to sell his stake at an uninformative price with pro-
    bability l(1  pa), which is the factor reducing his effort in Equation (7).
       We can now determine the equilibrium effort level e and price informa-
    tiveness p, defined by p ¼ p(e) and e ¼ e(p).
    Proposition 1. The insider’s equilibrium effort level e
         (i)  increases following an increase in the price informativeness
              function;
         (ii) increases with the information sensitivity of the firm’s stock, DV;
        (iii) decreases with the probability of a liquidity shock, l.
       We have established that effort and price informativeness depend
    on each other (Lemma 1 and 2). Since the insider’s effort increases
    with stock price informativeness, the equilibrium effort level is increased
    by an upward shift of p(). Still, the insider exerts less effort than in the
    absence of a liquidity shock (l ¼ 0) because P2 (and hence P3) is only a
    noisy signal of the firm’s value V. As the probability l of a liquidity shock
    increases, the insider puts more weight on the liquidation price at t ¼ 3
    and less weight on the firm’s value to be revealed only at t ¼ 4, when
    choosing his effort level. Consequently the equilibrium effort level
    decreases with l.9
       Proposition 1 has several interesting interpretations. First, consider an
    entrepreneur who can decide to use corporate resources to generate ben-
    efits for all shareholders or to extract private benefits. The result suggests
    that resource allocation may be improved by the information generated
    through the active trading of the firm’s stock. In that respect, going public


9
    It is noteworthy that while the insider has private information about his actual level of effort, this is not
    what is driving the result. Because liquidity shocks are observable, the insider cannot make out an
    information motivated trade for a liquidity trade. In other words, the result would be unchanged if the
    insider suffered from amnesia and forgot the level of effort just after having exerted it. In fact, in
    equilibrium, all agents correctly infer the insider’s effort level and so there is no information asymmetry.




                                                                                                           995
     The Review of Financial Studies / v 17 n 4 2004



     can have a disciplinary effect. In our model, this disciplinary effect is not
     related to the firm facing more stringent disclosure requirements or being
     on the market for corporate control as a result of going public. Of course,
     these effects might complement ours.
        In some cases, the increase in firm value brought about by the informa-
     tion generated from public trading may be crucial for the venture’s viabi-
     lity, that is, for the entrepreneur to find it worthwhile to undertake it in the
     first place. Consequently our result suggests that entrepreneurship may be
     enhanced by the existence of an active market for IPOs and small caps.
     This not only facilitates the entrepreneur’s eventual exit and allows better
     risk sharing, but also promotes efficient operating decisions.10
        Second, the active trading of an entrepreneurial firm’s stock can
     enhance the incentives of its main financier, like a venture capitalist, to
     engage in advising and overseeing the entrepreneur, or to be directly
     involved in operating decisions. To be precise, the expectation that the
     stock will eventually be traded is enough. This suggests for instance that
     an active IPO market may be key to the development of the venture
     capital industry. These considerations may be important for the debate
     over the promotion of entrepreneurship and the financing of start-ups, a
     prominent issue on the European agenda. In particular, the mostly
     American model of venture capital funding has attracted considerable
     attention in this context. Our theory formalizes the idea that the existence
     of an active IPO market in which venture capital-backed companies can
     be floated may be key not only to facilitating the eventual exit of the
     venture capitalist, but also to giving incentives to increase value in earlier
     stages of its relation with the firm [see Black and Gilson (1998) and Jeng
     and Wells (2000)].
        Finally, an institutional investor’s incentive to oversee the management
     of a large publicly traded company may be increased by the information
     generated by the public trading of the firm’s stock, that is, by market
     monitoring. This is in contrast to the view that market monitoring and
     insider activism are substitutes. It is also interesting to compare this
     perspective to the concern that by making exit easier, market liquidity
     reduces a large stakeholder’s incentive to become involved in corporate
     governance [Coffee (1991), Bhidé (1993)], which we do in Section 3.

     2.2 The decision to go public
     Our analysis has implications for the choice of ownership structure.
     Admittedly, insiders can control the firm’s ownership concentration only


10
     In Chemmanur and Fulghieri (1999), compared to a private placement, going public allows for better risk
     sharing but results in the duplication of information acquisition costs by many investors. Note, however,
     that in principle, risk sharing in itself does not require that the firm’s stock be publicly traded. Diversi-
     fication could also be achieved in a private placement to a financial intermediary.




     996
     Public Trading and Private Incentives



     to a certain extent. Indeed, once shares are publicly traded, blocks might
     form, dissolve, or change hands.11 Nevertheless, deliberate decisions also
     influence ownership concentration. For instance, the stake retained by
     insiders is to some extent a choice variable, as is the very decision to
     go public.12 In the following, we take the so-called Founding Fathers
     approach and assume that the firm’s ownership concentration is decided
     once and for all initially.
        At t ¼ 0, the firm’s initial owner designs its ownership structure (i.e.,
     chooses a) to maximize the firm’s initial value, that is, all proceeds from
     allocating shares to a large shareholder (e.g., himself ) and dispersed
     investors. The value to a large shareholder of a block (1  a) of shares
     is ð1  aÞV^ ðe ðaÞÞ  cðe ðaÞÞ. Turning now to dispersed shareholders, the
     initial price per share P0 they are willing to pay will generally depend on a.
     Therefore a is chosen to maximize the initial firm value defined as
                                     ^ ðe ðaÞÞ  cðe ðaÞÞ þ aP0 ðaÞ:
                              ð1  aÞV                                                               ð8Þ

       Three factors affect the decision to go public. The first two factors
     correspond to the two sources of incentives for the insider identified in
     Lemma 2. On the one hand, other things being equal, a larger stake (i.e., a
     smaller a) motivates the insider to exert more effort. On the other hand,
     given that the insider might have to liquidate his stake, the liquidation
     price’s sensitivity to his effort also affects his effort decision. These effects
     are antagonistic in so far as a fully concentrated ownership (i.e., the
     absence of public trading) might correspond to little information being
     public. The third factor is the revenue from the IPO.
       Several assumptions can be made about the initial share price function
     P0() or, more precisely, about the initial discount ½V    ^ ðe ðaÞÞ  P0 ðaÞ. In
     what follows, we adopt a particular theory thereof. Before that, however,
     we establish that when liquidity shocks are important, the discount cannot
     possibly always swamp the benefits of more informative prices—the
     insider would give shares away.
     Proposition 2. Even if P0 () ¼ 0, for l and DV large enough, firm value is
     maximized when some shares are publicly traded (a > 0) and the insider
     retains some shares (a < 1).
       To take an extreme case, assume that a liquidity shock is certain
     (l ¼ 1). If the insider remains the firm’s sole owner, he will exert no effort.
     In other words, his large stake has no direct incentive effect. To motivate


11
     Pagano and Roell (1998) argue that entrepreneurs perceive the loss of control over the ownership
     concentration and the identity of the firm’s shareholders as one of the costs of going public.
12
     Brennan and Franks (1997) present evidence that in the United Kingdom, insiders use IPO under pricing
     to establish a dispersed ownership structure and so retain corporate control.




                                                                                                     997
     The Review of Financial Studies / v 17 n 4 2004



     the insider, stock price informativeness is necessary. Therefore, if effort is
     sufficiently desirable, going public is optimal even if this means giving
     shares away for free.
       We now adopt a particular model of IPO pricing [see Holmstr€       om and
     Tirole (1993)]. At t ¼ 0, shares are sold in the IPO to investors who
     anticipate that they might lose money at t ¼ 2 when trading against a
     more informed speculator. This expected loss is compensated by a
     decrease in P0 sufficient to ensure that future liquidity traders break
     even overall.13 Since the liquidity traders’ expected losses equal the spec-
     ulator’s expected gain (gross of the information acquisition costs), pF (p),
     we have

                                    ^ ðe ðaÞÞ          1
                           P0 ðaÞ ¼ V                      pðe ðaÞÞF ðpðe ðaÞÞÞ:                            ð9Þ
                                                         a
     Proposition 3. For P0() as in Equation (9), a threshold l 2 (0, 1) exists such
     that
           (i) for l  l, firm value is maximized when some shares are publicly
               traded (a > 0) and the insider retains some shares (a < 1);
         (ii) for l  l, firm value is maximized when no shares are publicly
              traded (a ¼ 0).
        The optimal ownership structure balances the two incentive effects.
     When l is small, the second concern is less relevant and private ownership
     is optimal. When l is large, some public trading is optimal as price
     informativeness becomes key to providing incentives.14
     Corollary 1. Firms that have gone public are more likely to undertake
     further private or public sales of equity.15
        Firms that find it optimal to go public are those whose insiders are more
     likely to have to liquidate or reduce their holdings in the near future (i.e.,
     with l large). An implication of our theory is that IPOs are preludes to
     further equity sales, be they public transactions such as seasoned equity
     offerings (SEOs) or private placements. That is, firms will float a limited
     amount of shares (a < 1) in IPOs, even though they are likely to sell more

13
     As shown in Proposition 2’s proof, our results hold for as long as the total discount a½V ^ ðe ðaÞÞ  P0 ðaÞ
     increases with the speculator’s expected profit p(e(a)). See Faure-Grimaud and Gromb (2000) for an
     alternative theory satisfying this condition. More generally, we only need that the total discount does not
     decrease too fast with firm value.
14
     Note that we do not assume price informativeness to increase with the float (1  a). All that matters is
     that for some a > 0, trading reveals information that would not be available if the firm were privately
     held (i.e., with a ¼ 0). However, this approach prevents us from deriving an optimal a. In the appendix,
     we propose a version of our model in which the optimal float can be derived.
15
     An offering of primary shares would amount to a partial liquidation of the insider’s stake. However, as
     mentioned before, our analysis can easily be extended to partial liquidations, and therefore also applies to
     offerings of primary shares [Faure-Grimaud and Gromb (2000)].




     998
     Public Trading and Private Incentives



     equity in the near future.16 In fact, it is precisely in order to return to the
     market in good conditions that issuers will split their issues, a behavior
     documented in Jegadeesh, Weinstein and Welch (1990) and Welch (1996).
     It is also the case that venture capitalists do not usually liquidate their
     stake at the IPO stage [Lerner (1994)]. In that sense too, IPOs are a prelude
     to further equity sales.
        Our argument is related to the so-called ‘‘good-taste-in-the-mouth’’
     theory, suggesting that issuers underprice IPOs as part of a signal of
     their prospects in order to attract a more favorable price in subsequent
     equity sales. In our theory, the arrival of information about the firm’s
     value is due to the very fact of going public, not the IPO price.17 In
     Zingales (1995) firms also go public to affect the terms of future sales.
     More specifically, going public allows initial owner to use the free-rider
     behavior of dispersed shareholders as a bargaining tool to extract a
     greater surplus in future sales of corporate control in an imperfectly
     competitive market [see also Burkart, Gromb and Panunzi (1999)]. Our
     model does not deal with control transfers per se, although it can be
     applied to such events. Moreover, we assume that sales take place in a
     competitive market and so there is no surplus to be extracted. The disper-
     sion of shares yields a more accurate rather than a higher price.
        Consider now the attractiveness of going public as a function of the
     market’s informational properties.
     Proposition 4. For P0(a) as in Equation (9), more firms go public following
     an increase in the price informativeness function, that is, l decreases.
        Following an increase in the price informativeness function, the value of
     a privately held firm (i.e., with a ¼ 0) remains unchanged. Therefore,
     when considering whether to go public, the initial owner realizes that by
     doing so he can get the same bang in terms of indirect incentive effect for a
     lower buck in terms of direct incentive effect. Therefore going public be-
     comes more attractive and more firms find it optimal to follow that route.
        This has implications for entrepreneurship. Consider an entrepreneur’s
     incentives to start a firm in the first place, assuming that he must incur a
     fixed setup cost to do so. In that case, he will start the firm only if its initial
     value exceeds the setup cost.
     Corollary 2. An increase in the price informativeness function leads to more
     firms being started.
       Some ventures may be worth undertaking only if incentive problems are
     sufficiently alleviated. Therefore more firms will be created in economies
16
     Actually, our theory is also consistent with IPOs being the prelude to debt issues. See Section 2.3.
17
     For ‘‘good-taste-in-the-mouth’’ theories, see Chemmamur (1993) and Ibbotson and Ritter’s (1995) survey
     and the references therein. Ellingsen and Rydqvist (1998) make a similar point in an adverse selection
     context. They also study the implications for IPO underpricing.




                                                                                                            999
The Review of Financial Studies / v 17 n 4 2004



with stock markets offering greater stock price informativeness. The
impact of stock price informativeness on entrepreneurship will be stronger
for activities that involve more severe incentive problems. For instance,
access to a relatively informationally efficient stock market may be key to
the development of industries with many intangible assets, little collateral,
a large role of human capital, etc.
   Our model also suggests a complementarity between entrepreneurship
and stock price informativeness. This can be illustrated by introducing the
possibility that at the same time entrepreneurs decide to fund firms, future
speculators can invest to push the distribution of information cost F()
toward lower values of k. If this investment is costly, they will do so only if
they anticipate relatively high levels of entrepreneurship. Similarly incen-
tives to entrepreneurship are increased if entrepreneurs expect speculators
to undertake this investment. This can give rise to multiple equilibria.

2.3 Implications for capital structure and security design
Our analysis has implications for capital structure choices and more
generally for security design. These can be explored by extending our
main model to allow for securities other than equity.
   Consider for instance the possibility that the insider issues risk-free
bonds, that is, with total face value K  VL. As before, these bonds are
sold initially to investors who are potential future liquidity traders. At
t ¼ 1, the aggregate demand of the liquidity traders for these bonds is
dL 2 fd, 0g with Pr[dL ¼ 0] ¼ Pr[dL ¼ d] ¼ 1/2. As before, d can
depend on K.
   The value of the firm is independent of K. Consider the effect of K on
the three factors affecting the value of the firm. First, the insider’s direct
incentive effect is unaffected by K. Indeed, this effect depends on the
wedge between his payoffs in both states of the world, (VH  K) and
(VL  K), which is independent of K. Second, the indirect incentive effect
is also unaffected by K. The bonds being risk free, their value at t ¼ 2 is
certain, equal to K. Therefore there is no opportunity for profitable
informed trading, and no information is revealed. Third, the total dis-
count at which the issue is sold is independent of K. Indeed, since initial
investors anticipate no loss from trading against informed investors, the
bonds sell at no discount at t ¼ 0. Since firm value is independent of K, in
particular it is the same as for K ¼ 0, that is, when the insider retains
full ownership of the firm’s cash flows (the case a ¼ 0 in the previous
analysis).
Corollary 3. Insiders with a probability of liquidity shock l  l prefer to
go public by issuing shares rather than risk-free bonds.
  The trade-off governing the choice between issuing risk-free bonds and
equity is the same as that governing the going-public decision. Issuing


1000
     Public Trading and Private Incentives



     risk-free bonds minimizes indirect incentives (as bond prices are not
     informative), but minimizes the discount (liquidity traders do not lose
     out to more informed traders) and maximizes the insider’s direct incen-
     tives (the insider is residual claimant). How does this generalize when we
     allow for other claims? In general, the securities held by an insider will
     influence his incentive to exert effort. At the same time, those traded by
     outsiders will induce more or less information acquisition and revelation.
     A similar trade-off will also be present in a more general model of security
     design if one assumes ‘‘monotonic’’ claims, that is, outside securities the
     value of which increases with V.18 Under this assumption, increasing the
     ‘‘information sensitivity’’ of the outside claims (i.e., the difference between
     what outsiders get if V ¼ VH and if V ¼ VL) needs to increase the out-
     siders’ payoff in the good state and/or to decrease their payoff in the bad
     state. Consequently the insider’s payoff, which equals the realized return
     minus the payoff to outsiders, is reduced in the good state and/or increase
     in the bad state. An increase of the information sensitivity of the outside
     claims fosters information collection by speculators and increases the
     likelihood that the insider liquidates his stake at its true value: an indirect
     positive impact on incentives. However, an increase in this information
     sensitivity comes at the cost of decreasing the sensitivity of the insider’s
     stake to the final returns V, a negative direct effect. There is only so much
     sensitivity to be divided up between inside and outside claims. The optimal
     design of the firm’s securities thus consists of striking the right balance.
     When a liquidity shock is unlikely, price informativeness is less important
     than direct incentives. Instead, as a shock becomes more likely, price
     informativeness becomes more important and so the optimal design
     moves toward more information-sensitive outside claims at the cost of
     reducing the effort sensitivity of the insider’s claim. In our binary model,
     there is not a unique optimal claim, but the previous corollary already
     identifies conditions where the best outside claim is information sensitive.
        Interestingly, a pecking order for initial offerings can arise in which,
     contrary to the standard pecking order hypothesis [Myers and Majluf
     (1984)], firms issue preferably information-sensitive securities. It is


18
     Usually [e.g., in Innes (1990)], the restriction to nondecreasing claims is motivated as follows. Consider a
     claim paying R(V ) when firm value is V. With R(VH) < R(VL), and after the realization VL, the
     entrepreneur could inflate the cash flow to VH, for example, by borrowing secretly, and so reduce his
     repayment from R(VL) to R(VH). (Strictly speaking, this does not preclude such securities from being
     issued. Simply, investors will not consider them at face value. They will equate them to an equivalent
     security with nondecreasing repayments.) Here the problem is different. This may be best illustrated in the
     following example. Instead of safe debt with face value K  VL, suppose that the insider issues two
     Arrow-Debreu securities, one paying K only when V ¼ VL and zero otherwise, the other paying K when
     V ¼ VH and zero otherwise. The payoff of the two securities add up to that of safe debt, but each of them
     is information sensitive. Their public trading could reveal some information. Since the insider’s net payoff
     is the same as if safe debt had been issued, (V  K), the insider has no incentives ex post to inflate cash
     flows. Admittedly, if both claims are traded, this might affect liquidity trading because small investors can
     combine them to synthesize the safe claim.




                                                                                                          1001
      The Review of Financial Studies / v 17 n 4 2004



      noteworthy that this ‘‘reversed’’ pecking order would hold for issues of
      publicly traded securities only. Moreover, it would likely hold for initial
      offers only. Indeed, once the informational role of public trading is
      ensured, the firm might revert to the standard pecking order for its
      subsequent sales of securities, whether they are public issues or private
      placements.
         While our theory is only sketchy, it takes a perspective that contrasts
      with much of the literature on incentives and security design. Building on
      Jensen and Meckling (1976), this literature argues that in a standard moral
      hazard situation, insiders should issue debt so as to retain a claim (here,
      levered equity) that is as sensitive as possible to the component of the
      firm’s value affected by their decisions.19 Note however, that in such
      models the design and allocation of outside claims is irrelevant. For
      instance, with multiple creditors, the claim that each of them owns is
      irrelevant as long as they add up to debt. In other words, the
      Modigliani-Miller theorem applies to outside claims. Our model considers
      outside claims explicitly.20 The irrelevance is broken because trading
      affects firm value and is influenced by the design of publicly traded
      securities. That is, although outsiders cannot affect operating decisions
      directly, the securities they hold and trade do so indirectly.

3. Exit as a Signal
      So far we have considered the insider’s exit as essentially exogenous.21 In
      general, however, exit is likely to be a decision. In this section we explore
      the possibility for the insider to engage in strategic trading, that is, to sell
      or retain his shares in order to exploit private information about the firm.
      Such a possibility is important in our context. Indeed, the gains from
      strategic trading depend on the degree of information asymmetry, which is
      itself affected by public trading. Hence public trading might affect the
      insider’s incentive to liquidate his stake, which creates another channel
      through which public trading affects incentives. To conduct this analysis,


 19
      Jensen and Meckling (1976) show that issuing debt dominates issuing equity in a standard moral hazard
      context. Innes (1990) extends their result to show that debt dominates all other securities.
 20
      In Boot and Thakor (1993), the trading of information-sensitive securities reduces the costs of adverse
      selection. While they focus on the design of multiple publicly traded securities, we deal with the design of
      both an inside (nontraded) security and a single traded security. For instance, if the firm’s financing needs
      can be met with safe debt, this will be optimal in their framework, but not necessarily in ours. In that
      respect, Fulghieri and Lukin (2001) is closer to our analysis, although in an adverse selection setting. In
      Berkovitch and Israel (1995) and Dewatripont and Tirole (1994), security design can turn outsiders into
      insiders when desirable. In a repeated game context where management can be dismissed by outsiders,
      Fluck (1998) shows that outside equity with infinite maturity is optimal [see also Myers (2000)]. In our
      model, the outsiders never affect operations.
 21
      Note, however, that our model did not assume that the insider has to retain his stake when he is not hit by
      a liquidity shock.




      1002
     Public Trading and Private Incentives



     we return to the basic model of Section 1 that we amend in two ways.
     First, exit should be a decision by the insider. Second, this decision
     should be taken under some information asymmetry. Regarding the latter
     feature, we assume the following.
     Assumption 1. At t ¼ 2, the insider observes the realization of V.
        Recall, however, that the basic model does not specify whether the
     insider has private information. The possibility of profitable strategic
     trading based on information was prevented by two features. First, the
     insider incurring a liquidity shock or not was assumed to be public
     information. Hence the insider could not make out a sale motivated by
     negative private information for one motivated by a liquidity shock.
     Second, when hit by a liquidity shock, the insider was assumed to have
     to sell his stake irrespective of the liquidation price. Hence, he could not
     strategically retain his stake when judging the liquidation price to be too
     low. We now relax this second assumption by allowing the insider to
     decide to retain his stake when the selling price is too low. That is, when
     V ¼ VH, the insider trades off the benefits that he derives from exiting
     against the cost of selling at a discount. To analyze this trade-off, we need
     to model explicitly the benefits of exit.
     Assumption 2. At t ¼ 3, there are no liquidity shocks, but the insider
     uncovers an alternative investment project outside the firm with an exogen-
     ous return (1 þ r), with r drawn in (0, þ1) from a known distribution.22 He
     can then decide to liquidate his stake and invest the proceeds in this alter-
     native project. The insider’s decision to sell and the nature of the alternative
     (i.e., the value of r) are publicly observed.23
        Now, when making the decision to sell or retain his stake, the insider
     knows the true firm value V ¼ Vs, with s 2 {L, H}. The insider values his
     stake at (1  a)Vs, while liquidating a fraction (1  a) of shares at price
     P3 to exploit the outside opportunity yields (1 þ r)(1  a)P3. Hence the
     insider chooses to liquidate if and only if
                                                         V s  P3
                                                  r>              :                                           ð10Þ
                                                            P3
     The first term captures the attractiveness of the outside investment oppor-
     tunity. The second term is the difference between the stake’s liquidation
     price and its actual value. A positive difference corresponds to overpricing


22
     Among others, Wang (1994) proposes a model of liquidity shocks similar to ours.
23
     We assume that he cannot wait to liquidate his stake. Note that we also maintain the assumption that the
     insider has to sell all or none of his shares. In particular, the insider cannot use the fraction of shares that
     he sells as a signal. We analyze the latter case in Appendix I and find our results to be robust.




                                                                                                             1003
     The Review of Financial Studies / v 17 n 4 2004



     and makes exit more attractive. Conversely, a negative difference corre-
     sponds to underpricing and makes exit less attractive.24
        If P2 is informative, then P3 ¼ P2 ¼ Vs and the insider sells at t ¼ 3.
     The case of an uninformative price P2 is more involved because the
     insider’s decision to sell or retain his stake can be informative about
     firm value. Consequently the liquidation price P3 will depend on (the
     market’s beliefs about) the insider’s strategy. Although multiple equilibria
     can arise, they all share the following property. If P2 is uninformative, the
     insider’s stake is underpriced when V ¼ VH and weakly overpriced when
     V ¼ VL. The insider is thus at least as eager to sell when V ¼ VL as when
     V ¼ VH. This implies that the liquidation price P3 cannot exceed P2, that
     is, a sale cannot be good news about firm value. Hence an uninformative
     P2 makes the insider more reluctant to exit when V ¼ VH. This is a
     manifestation of the lemons problem. To simplify the discussion, for the
     values of r for which multiple equilibria exist, we (somewhat arbitrarily)
     select the equilibria in which exit is most likely.
     Lemma 3.
          (i) Under an informative price P2, the insider exits in both states.
         (ii) Under an uninformative price P2,
               the insider exits when V ¼ VL;
                                                                            H
               the insider exits when V ¼ VH if and only if r > rðP2 Þ  V P2 P2 .

        This gives the impact of an increase in p and P2 on the exit probability in
     both states. When V ¼ VL, Equation (10) is satisfied for any P3  VL and
     so the insider exits irrespective of whether P2 was informative or not.
     Consequently the exit probability is unaffected by an increase in p. When
     V ¼ VH, following an uninformative P2, the insider chooses whether to
     retain his stake or sell it at a discount, a trade-off that would not arise
     with an informative price. Thus a greater price informativeness p or a
     higher selling price P2 alleviates the lemons problem and therefore
     encourages exit.
     Corollary 4. Other things being equal, following an increase in p or P2,
          (i) the exit probability when V ¼ VH increases strictly;
         (ii) the exit probability when V ¼ VL is unchanged.
        An increase in the price informativeness function leads to an increase in
     effort. Indeed, a higher p alleviates the lemons problem faced by the
     insider when V ¼ VH, making this state more attractive. Conversely,
     informative prices reduce the insider’s ability to sell overpriced shares


24
     The basic model is nested into this one. Exogenous liquidity shocks are equivalent to the investment
     opportunity being sufficiently valuable (i.e., r large enough) to warrant liquidation irrespective of P3.




     1004
  Public Trading and Private Incentives



  when V ¼ VL, making this state less attractive. Both effects encourage
  effort. The effect on the unconditional exit probability is twofold. First,
  the probability of exit is (weakly) increased in each state. Second, as effort
  goes up, V ¼ VH is more likely, which reduces the probability of exit, as
  exit is less likely when V ¼ VH than when V ¼ VL. The combined effect is
  ambiguous.
  Proposition 5. Following an increase in the price informativeness function,
       (i) the unconditional exit probability can either increase or decrease;
      (ii) the insider’s equilibrium level of effort increases.
     Two particularly noteworthy features can be related to the liquidity-
  control trade-off literature. Following an increase in the price informa-
  tiveness function, the block is more liquid in the following sense. When
  V ¼ VH, selling is less likely to involve a discount (i.e., p increases), and
  when it does, the discount is smaller. In that respect, an increase in the
  price informativeness corresponds to an increase in the liquidity of the
  insider’s stake. One may be concerned that this will result in exit being
  more frequent, and eventually in reduced incentives for the insider. How-
  ever, the proposition shows that although an increase in the price infor-
  mativeness makes exit more likely in all states (Corollary 4), this does not
  necessarily imply an increase in the unconditional probability of exit.
  Again, this is due to the feedback effect on effort an increase of which
  makes it more likely that states in which the block is less liquid are
  reached. Moreover, remarkably enough, effort increases even in the case
  in which the exit probability increases.


4. Conclusion
  This article proposes that the information generated by public trading can
  enhance a large shareholder’s incentives to undertake value-increasing
  activities which are privately costly. This information makes the liquida-
  tion value of the insider’s stake more sensitive to his activity, which
  improves his incentives. This insight has a number of applications to
  entrepreneurship, for the financing and monitoring of start-ups, and for
  institutional investors’ activism. In addition, although going public
  reduces the insider’s stake, it may ultimately increase his incentives when
  liquidation is more likely, or more substantial. Similarly, when firms
  choose their capital structure, they might issue publicly traded securities
  that are information sensitive for their trading to generate information.
  Thus a reverse pecking order might arise for initial offerings.
     The article has abstracted from a number of interesting issues. The basic
  effect of speculative monitoring on incentives may have implications for
  the allocation of effort by insiders across several activities. Suppose for


                                                                          1005
  The Review of Financial Studies / v 17 n 4 2004



  instance that the firm has two projects. If speculators find it more profit-
  able to trade on information about project 1, stock prices may end up
  being informative only about project 1. If so, the insider has an incentive
  to allocate his effort to project 1, especially if a liquidity shock is likely.
  This can give rise to some form of myopia, in that an insider with a short
  horizon (high liquidity needs) will exert more effort in projects about
  which speculators are more likely to become informed [as in Paul
  (1992)]. This could also have implications for project selection, possibly
  leading to some form of managerial conservatism. Security design may be
  used to circumvent this effect (e.g., issuing a tracking stock for project 2).
  This may have implications for internal capital markets efficiency [as in
  Goel, Nanda, and Narayanan (2004)].
     Another possible extension would be to consider alternative ways of
  generating information. For instance, the market mechanism has been
  implicitly assumed to generate unique information. While this might not
  seem unreasonable, some foundation for this assumption would be useful.
  Also, we have not considered alternative ways in which the insider can
  deal with liquidity shocks. The insider might be able to take actions that
  affect the likelihood and the extent of liquidity shocks (the parameters l
  and r in our model), such as tilting the firm’s operations to ensure that
  most financing needs are met with internal funds. Another possibility is to
  ensure that insiders are institutions designed to have low l. Such institu-
  tions may be particularly important when the market for IPOs and small
  caps is less developed. Conversely, the existence of such institutions may
  reduce the need to develop such markets. Finally, we have not considered
  the firm’s fate following the insider’s exit. When this is taken into account,
  whether exit results in the dispersion of the insider’s block or in its transfer
  to a new large shareholder may become relevant. We hope to have
  provided a framework that will prove useful to address these and
  other issues.


Appendix A: Proof of Proposition 1
  The equilibrium is determined by the intersection of p(e), which is decreasing, and e( p), which
  is increasing. A change in parameters that induces an upward shift of one of p() or e(), and a
  weakly upward shift of the other results in higher values of e. Increasing d or shifting F()
  toward lower values of k in the sense of FOSD shifts p() upward without affecting e().
  Increasing DV shifts both p() and e() upward. Decreasing l shifts e() upward without
  affecting p().



Appendix B: Proof of Proposition 2
  Let e(l, a) and p(l, a) denote the equilibrium effort and speculator expected profit. We
  show that for l ¼ 1 and DV large enough, firm value is not maximized for a ¼ 0.



  1006
  Public Trading and Private Incentives



     For P0(a) ¼ 0, the gain in initial firm valueh fromiissuing a rather than remaining private
                      ^ ðe ðl, aÞÞ  cðe ðl, aÞÞ VL þD2V .
  is Cðl, aÞ  ð1  aÞV
    We now show that there exists a > 0 for which C (1, a) > 0,
                                    "                                     #
         dCð1, aÞ                          dV^ ðe ð1, aÞÞ    0           de ð1, aÞ
                      ^
                  ¼ V ðe ð1, aÞÞ þ ð1  aÞ                  c ðe ð1, aÞÞ             :
           da                                     de                           da
  Using the first-order condition for effort choice,
                                                                       
                 dCð1, aÞ
                          ¼ V ^ ðe ð1, aÞÞ þ ð1  aÞ DV ð1p ð1, aÞÞ de ð1, aÞ :
                    da                                  2                  da
  We show that this derivative is positive when a goes to zero. Indeed, we have
                                                   
                          dCð1, aÞ             DV      DV       de ð1, aÞ
                      lim           ¼  VL þ       þ        lim            :
                      a!0    da                 2       2   a!0    da
  Differentiating Equations (5) and (7), we have
                                                                    
                         de ð1, aÞ                        dp ð1, aÞ DV
                                    ¼ p ð1, aÞ þ ð1  aÞ
                            da                                da       2
                                                       2                             3
                                                      ! ddðaÞ ð1ðe ð1, aÞÞ2 Þ
              dp ð1, aÞ DV   ð1ðe ð1, aÞÞ2 Þ        6 da              8           7
                        ¼   f                   dðaÞDV 4                             5
                 da       2          8                     e ð1, aÞ      de ð1, aÞ
                                                                    dðaÞ
                                                               4             da
  When a goes to zero, p(1, a) necessarily goes to zero as d(0) ¼ 0. Given that p(1, a)  0,
         dp ð1, aÞ                              de ð1, aÞ                    de ð1, aÞ
  lima!0             0 and necessarily lima!0               0. Unless lima!0            ¼ þ1 (and if so,
            da                                      da                            da
                        dCð1, aÞ
  necessarily lima!0              0 and the claim is proven), we have
                         da

                                       de ð1, aÞ       dp ð1, aÞ DV
                                lim               ¼ lim
                                a!0       da        a!0    da       2

                                                                  
                                     dp ð1,aÞ DV           ddðaÞ 1
                                 lim          ¼   f ð0Þ lim
                                 a!0    da      2       a!0 da 8

  and so

                             dCð1, aÞ    h     DV i D3V          ddðaÞ
                         lim          ¼  VL þ     þ    f ð0Þlim       :
                         a!0   da               2    64      a!0 da

                     ddðaÞ                                         dCð1, aÞ                  DV     DV
  Necessarily lima!0       > 0, as d 0 (0) > 0. Therefore lima!0            is increasing in    for
                      da           DV                    dCð1, aÞ    da                       2      2
  large enough. Thus there exists       for which lima!0          > 0. Consequently, at least for a
                                        2                       da
  small enough, C(1, a) > 0, which means that when l ¼ 1, firm value is not maximized for
  a ¼ 0.
    Finally, notice that a ¼ 1 results in the insider choosing no effort so that C(1, 1) ¼ 0, while
  we have just shown that there exists a for which C(1, a) > 0.



Appendix C: Proof of Proposition 3
  Let e(l, a) and p(l, a) denote the equilibrium effort and speculator expected profit. The
  value of the firm at t ¼ 0 is the sum of the block’s value [obtained from Equations (6) and (7)]




                                                                                                   1007
  The Review of Financial Studies / v 17 n 4 2004



  and the value of dispersed shares [obtained from Equation (9)]:
    ^ ðe ðl, aÞÞ  cðe ðl, aÞÞ  p ðl, aÞF ðp ðl, aÞÞ ¼ gðe ðl, aÞÞp ðl, aÞF ðp ðl, aÞÞ,
    V                                                                                              ð11Þ
               ^ ðÞ  cðÞ and g00 < 0 and g0 > 0 over [0, DV/2).
  where gðÞ  V
    We first check that going public is optimal when l ¼ 1. We have to check that there exists
  a > 0 such that
                            gðe ð1, aÞÞgðe ð1, 0ÞÞ > p ð1, aÞF ðp ð1, aÞÞ:                    ð12Þ
                                                2
  From the continuity of pð:, aÞ  1 2 e dðaÞDV for all e and p (., 0) ¼ 0, there exists h, n such
  that 8e, if a < n, then p (e, a) < h. Consider now the case of an insider with l ¼ 1 who
  decides to float an arbitrarily small fraction a  « of the shares traded. The previous
  condition is equivalent to

                           e ð1, aÞ
                                      ½DV e ð1, aÞ > p ð1, aÞF ðp ð1, aÞÞ:          ð13Þ
                               2
                                
                           F ðp ð1, «ÞÞ
  From e ð1, «Þ ¼ ð1  «Þ               DV , a sufficient condition is
                                  2
                                    D2 h             F ðp ð1, «ÞÞ i
                           ð1«Þ V 1  ð1  «Þ                       > p ð1, «Þ         ð14Þ
                                     4                    2
                           2
                         D
  which is true because V > 0.
                          4
     We now establish the existence of a unique threshold l. Assume that for some l1, initial
  firm value is not maximized for a ¼ 0, that is, there exists a1 > 0 such that
                       gðe ðl1 , a1 ÞÞ  gðe ðl1 , 0ÞÞ > p ðl1 , a1 ÞF ðp ðl1 , a1 ÞÞ:         ð15Þ

  The proof consists of showing that for l2 > l1, firm value is not maximized for a ¼ 0. We
  have e(l1, a1) > e(l2, a1) (Proposition 1 (iii)), which implies p(l1, a1) < p(l2, a1).
  Hence, given that p(l2, 0) ¼ 0, the continuity of p() implies the existence of a2 2 (0, a1)
  such that p(l1, a1) ¼ p(l2, a2). Equation (7) implies
                                                         DV              DV
                        e ðl, aÞe ðl, 0Þ ¼ ð1aÞ         lp ðl, aÞ  a    ð1lÞ,                ð16Þ
                                                          2                2
  which, given that p(l1, a1) ¼ p(l2, a2), a2 < a1 and l2 > l1, implies
                             e ðl2 , a2 Þ  e ðl2 , 0Þ > e ðl1 , a1 Þ  e ðl1 , 0Þ:            ð17Þ
                                        0   
  Noticing that g is concave and g (e (l, a)) > 0, that is, effort is strictly less than the optimal
  level (unless l ¼ a ¼ 0), and that e(l2, 0) < e(l1, 0) (Proposition 1(iii)), we have

                       gðe ðl2 , a2 ÞÞgðe ðl2 , 0ÞÞ > gðe ðl1 , a1 ÞÞ  gðe ðl1 , 0ÞÞ         ð18Þ


                             >p ðl1 , a1 ÞF ðp ðl1 , a1 ÞÞ by Equation ð15Þ                      ð19Þ

                        >p ðl2 , a2 ÞF ðp ðl2 , a2 ÞÞ as p ðl2 , a2 Þ ¼ p ðl1 , a1 Þ:          ð20Þ
                                                                      
  Note that the proof also holds if we replace p (l, a) F(p (l, a)) with any increasing function
  h(p(l, a)) in Equation (11). Therefore our result goes through for any P0() of the form
           ^ ðe ðl, aÞÞ  1 hðp ðl, aÞÞ.
  P0 ðaÞ ¼ V               a



Appendix D: Proof of Proposition 4 and Corollary 2
  Consider the effect of a shift of F() toward lower values of k in the sense of FOSD, from F1()
  to F2(). (The proof for an increase in d() is similar.)



  1008
  Public Trading and Private Incentives



     For a and F(), let e(F, a), p(F, a), p(F, a), and V0(F, a) denote the equilibrium effort,
  speculator expected profit, price informativeness, and initial firm value, respectively. We
  show that when F shifts from F1 to F2, maxa>0[V0(F, a)  V0(F, 0)] increases weakly for all
  values of l and strictly for some values of l. This first result implies Proposition 4. We also
  show that maxa0 V0(F, a) increases weakly for all values of l and strictly for some values of
  l, which proves Corollary 2. Remarking that V0(F, 0) is unchanged by the shift of F and that
  Proposition 3 implies that for some l large enough maxa  0 V0(F, a) ¼ maxa > 0 V0(F, a),
  both results amount to maxa>0V0(F, a) increasing strictly following the shift of F which
  we now show.
     For any a1 > 0,
                                          p ða1 , F1 Þ < p ða1 , F2 Þ,
  which implies
                        p ða1 , F1 ÞF1 ðp ða1 , F1 ÞÞ < p ða1 , F2 ÞF2 ðp ða1 , F2 ÞÞ:
  Because
                                        p ð0, F2 ÞF2 ðp ð0, F2 ÞÞ ¼ 0,
  by continuity, there exists a2 < a1 such that
                        p ða1 , F1 ÞF1 ðp ða1 , F1 ÞÞ ¼ p ða2 , F2 ÞF2 ðp ða2 , F2 ÞÞ:        ð21Þ
                                                                                            
  Since F1() < F2(), the only way this equality can hold is if p (a1, F1) > p (a2, F2) and
  F1(p(a1, F1)) < F2(p(a2, F2)). This implies p(a1, F1) < p(a2, F2), which in turn implies
                                           e ða1 , F1 Þ < e ða2 , F2 Þ:

  Both effort levels being below first best, they belong to the interval [0, DV/2) over which g is
  increasing. Therefore
                                       gðe ða1 , F1 ÞÞ < gðe ða2 , F2 ÞÞ:                       ð22Þ
  For a > 0 and F(), the initial firm value is
                            V0 ða, F Þ ¼ gðe ða, F ÞÞ  p ða, F ÞF ðp ða, F ÞÞ:                ð23Þ

  Equations (21) and (22) imply V0(a1, F1) < V0(a2, F2). Therefore
                                    max V0 ða, F1 Þ < max V0 ða, F2 Þ,
                                     a>0                   a>0

  which completes the proof. Note that the proof would also hold for any initial price such that
    ^ ðe ðaÞÞ  P0 ðaÞ is an increasing function of p(a).
  a½V


Appendix E: Proof of Corollary 3
  The value of the firm to the insider when DRO ¼ 0 is the same as in the case of a privately held
  firm. Proposition 3 has established that for l  l, the insider prefers issuing some shares to
  remaining private. This result also implies that the insider prefers to issue outside securities
  with DRO ¼ aDV to DRO ¼ 0.


Appendix F: A Model of the Optimal Float
  In this section we specialize our model to derive the optimal float, that is, the fraction of
  shares a maximizing the firm’s initial value. To obtain closed-form solutions, we specify the
  link between the float and the stock’s liquidity (i.e., d(a)) as well as the distribution of




                                                                                                 1009
  The Review of Financial Studies / v 17 n 4 2004



  information acquisition costs (i.e., F()). Moreover, our continuous effort choice model yields
  third-degree equations. To avoid these we adopt a discrete effort choice formulation.
     At t ¼ 0, a continuum of mass one of ex ante identical consumers allocate their wealth
      between the firm’s shares issued in an IPO (i.e., a fraction a) and a risk-free asset with
      exogenous return equal to one.
     At t ¼ 1, the insider chooses e 2 {0, eH} with c(0) ¼ 0 and c(eH) ¼ c.
     At t ¼ 2, a fraction of consumers learn that they have to consume immediately and
      liquidate their investments. The other consumers wait until t ¼ 4. The fraction of early
      consumers is equiprobably zero or d.
     The speculator’s cost of acquiring information is uniformly distributed on [0, K].

    We now solve for the optimal float, assuming that inducing the insider to exert eH with
  certainty is optimal. At t ¼ 2, early consumers liquidate their shares, and their aggregate
  demand for the firm’s shares is equiprobably zero or d(a) ¼ d a. The insider chooses
  e ¼ eH if and only if
                                eH
                                   ð1aÞðlpa þ ð1  lÞÞDV  c:
                                 2
  The corresponding probability that the stock price is informative is
                                                 ð1  e2H Þ
                                          pa ¼              daDV :                                  ð24Þ
                                                   16K
  These conditions can be rewritten as
                                                           
                                     ð1  e2H Þ                  2c
                   hðaÞ  ð1  aÞ l             daDV þ ð1lÞ         0:                           ð25Þ
                                       16K                     eH DV
                                                                               ð1  lÞ
                                                             a ¼ 12 
  It is easily shown that the maximum of h(a) is reached for ^              ð1  e2 Þ
                                                                                         . Because shares
                                                                                  H
                                                                           l   8K dDV
                                  
  sell at a discount, the float a maximizing the initial firm value is the smallest such that the
  Equation (25) holds. Therefore it solves h(a) ¼ 0. To streamline the analysis, we focus on
  parameter values yielding an interior solution for a, that is, such that ^ a 2 ð0, 1Þ, h(0) < 0,
  and hð^ aÞ. In that case, a is the smallest root of the equation h(a) ¼ 0.

  Lemma 4. The float maximizing the firm’s initial value is
                         vﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
                         u
                         u 2 1  l  eH2cDV                              1   ð1  lÞ
               a ¼ ^a  t^
                          a  ð1e2 Þ                                 a ¼  ð1e2 Þ
                                                              , where ^              :
                                     l 8KH dDV                           2 l
                                                                              8K dDV
                                                                                H



     It is easily checked that a increases with l: as the likelihood of a liquidity shock increases,
  a larger float is optimal as it generates more price informativeness.


Appendix G: Proof of Lemma 3
  Let x(s, r) (y(s, r)) denote the probability that the insider sells his stake at t ¼ 3 given s and
  r when the stock price at t ¼ 2 is informative (uninformative). We know x(s, r) ¼ 1 because
  r > 0. We also know that y(L, r)  y(H, r). Moreover, if y(H, r) 2 (0, 1), then y(L, r) ¼ 1
  because if Equation (10) holds (even weakly) for s ¼ H, it does strictly for s ¼ L. In
  equilibrium, the price at which the insider can sell his stake when P2 is uninformative is
                                               1þe
                                                          yðH, rÞ
                                     L
                          P3 ðrÞ ¼ V þ            2                                            ð26Þ
                                          1þe                  1  e DV :
                                                   yðH, rÞ þ
                                             2                     2




  1010
  Public Trading and Private Incentives



  When y(H, r) increases from zero to one, P3(r) increases from VL to P2. Consequently,
          VH  VL
                      V H  P2
  for r <     L
                    r>          , Equation (10) is never
                                                      h (always) satisfied
                                                                  i        for s ¼ H in equili-
             V               P2                                H
  brium. There remains to determine y(H, r) for r 2 V P2 P2 , V HVLV L . For each value of r, three
  perfect bayesian equilibria coexist, with three corresponding values of y(H, r), and sustained
  by different investor beliefs following a sale.
    Pooling equilibrium: If y(H, r) ¼ 1, then P3(r) ¼ P2. This is indeed an equilibrium, as
                                                              H
  Equation (10) holds for s ¼ H and P3 ¼ V      ^ , when r  V  P2 . This is the equilibrium we
                                                               P2
  arbitrarily select.
    Fully separating equilibrium: If y(H, r) ¼ 0, then P3(r) ¼ VL. This is indeed an equili-
                                                                                    VH  VL
  brium, as Equation (10) is violated for s ¼ H and P3 ¼ VL, when r           .
                                                                          VL
    Semiseparating equilibrium: In such an equilibrium, Equation (10) holds with equality for
  s ¼ H. This determines a price P3(r) given by
                                                                            VH
                           r  P3 ðrÞ þ ðP3 ðrÞ  V H Þ ¼ 0   or P3 ðrÞ ¼       :                 ð27Þ
                                                                            1þr
  This in turn determines a unique value for y(H, r) given
              1þe                                                 rV H
                      yðH, rÞ                               DV              
                 2                                                  1þr    1e
  VL þ                           DV ¼ P3 ðrÞ or yðH, rÞ ¼                      :                ð28Þ
          1þe                 1e                               rV H       1þe
                 yðH, rÞ þ                                      1 þ r
            2                  2


Appendix H: Proof of Proposition 5
  Anticipating pa and V^ a , the insider anticipates that he will exit if and only if the price is
                   ^         H  ^a
  informative or rðV Þ > V V^a V and thus chooses e to maximize
                     a


          cðeÞ þ pa ð1  aÞV   ^ ðeÞð1 þ E½rÞ þ ð1pa Þð1  aÞ
                Z rðV^ a Þ                                     Z þ1
                              1þe H 1e L                                   ^ a ð1 þ rÞdGðrÞ ,
                                   V þ          V ð1 þ rÞ dGðrÞ þ           V
                  0            2            2                          ^ aÞ
                                                                    rðV

  where G is the c.d.f. of r’s distribution. Hence
                                   DV
                 eðpa Þ ¼ pa ð1  aÞ   ð1 þ E½rÞ
                                    2
                                           1      ^ a ÞÞðV H  V L ð1 þ E½rjr  rðV
                                                                                   ^ a ÞÞÞ,
                         þ ð1  pa Þð1  aÞ Gð rðV
                                           2
  which is increasing in pa because

                   DV                      1
  e0 ðpa Þ ¼ ð1  aÞ  ð1 þ E½rÞ  ð1  aÞ Gð     ^ a ÞÞðV H  V L ð1 þ E½rjr  rðV
                                                 rðV                                ^ a ÞÞ
                    2                     2                                
                                                       L
        ¼ ð1  aÞ
                  DV
                       ð1 þ E½rÞ  Gð
                                      rðV^ a ÞÞ 1  V E½rjr  rðV   ^ a Þ                      ð30Þ
                   2                                 DV

                     DV                   ^ a ÞÞ > 0:
        > ð1  aÞ       ½ð1 þ E½rÞ  Gð
                                        rðV                                                       ð31Þ
                      2
  Recall that the equilibrium is determined by the intersection of p(e), which is decreasing, and
  e(p), which is increasing. An increase in the price informativeness function induces a weakly
  upward shift of e() and thus results in higher values of both e and p.
    This has no effect on exit when V ¼ VL because x(L, r) ¼ y(L, r) ¼ 1 for all r. When
  V ¼ VH, however, exit is more likely for two reasons. First, the increase in e increases



                                                                                                 1011
  The Review of Financial Studies / v 17 n 4 2004



  rðe Þ: when the price is uninformative, the insider exits for more values of r. Second, the
  insider is also more likely to exit for r < rðe Þ.
     An increase of the price informativeness function has an ambiguous effect on the equili-
  brium unconditional exit probability,
                                                           1 þ e
                                         1  ð1  p Þ              rðe ÞÞ:
                                                                  Gð                                      ð32Þ
                                                             2



Appendix I: Signaling
  We consider the possibility that the insider uses partial liquidation as a signal. Indeed,
  retaining shares is costly because r > 0, and is clearly more so when V ¼ VL than when
  V ¼ VH. In a fully separating equilibrium in which the insider sells a fraction bL ¼ 1 if
  V ¼ VL and bH < 1 if V ¼ VH, the following incentive compatibility conditions must hold:
                                ð1 þ rÞbH V H þ ð1  bH ÞV H  ð1 þ rÞV L                                  ð33Þ

                             ð1 þ rÞV L  ð1 þ rÞbH V H þ ð1  bH ÞV L :                                     ð34Þ
                                                                                   
  Hence there exists an equilibrium for all bH 2 ð1 þ rÞV
                                                          L V H             L
                                                        rV H
                                                                 , ð1 þ rÞVrVH  V L . There is also a continuum
  of pooling equilibria, in which the insider sells a fraction b irrespective of V. As is standard in
  such signaling games, only the ‘‘best’’ separating equilibrium survives the Cho-Kreps intui-
                                        rV L
  tive criterion, that is, bH ¼                       . Note that this fraction increases with r, as a better
                                   ð1 þ rÞV H  V L
  outside option increases the cost of retaining shares, and hence the cost of the signal, making
  it easier to separate. We have
  Proposition 6. Following an increase in the price informativeness function,
       (i) the insider’s equilibrium level of effort increases;
      (ii) the average fraction liquidated by the insider can either increase or decrease.
  The insider’s expected payoff is then

   cðeÞ þ pa ð1  aÞV^ ðeÞð1 þ E½rÞ þ ð1  pa Þð1  aÞ
               Z þ1                                                               
          1þe                                                         1e L
                         ½ð1 þ rÞbH ðrÞV H þ ð1  bH ðrÞÞV H dGðrÞ þ    V ð1 þ E½rÞ :                    ð35Þ
            2        0                                                 2

  Proceeding as before, effort can be shown to increase with pa. Hence, p(ea) remaining as in
  Equation (5), point (i) is proved. Moreover, price informativeness has two antagonistic
  effects on the average fraction liquidated by the insider, E[b] ¼ Pr [V ¼ VL] þ (1  (1  p) 
  (1  E [bH])) Pr[V ¼ VH]. On the one hand, p increases leading the insider to liquidate more
  shares conditional on V ¼ VH because E[bH] < 1. On the other hand, the increased effort
  increases Pr[V ¼ VH], which reduces the overall probability of exit because E[bH] < 1. The
  overall effect can be shown to be ambiguous.

  References
  Aghion, P., P. Bolton, and J. Tirole, 2004, ‘‘Exit Options in Corporate Finance: Liquidity versus
  Incentives,’’ forthcoming in Review of Finance.

  Berkovitch, E., and R. Israel, 1995, ‘‘The Design of Internal Control and Capital Structure,’’ Review of
  Financial Studies, 9, 209–240.

  Bhidé, A., 1993, ‘‘The Hidden Costs of Stock Market Liquidity,’’ Journal of Financial Economics, 34,
  31–51.




  1012
Public Trading and Private Incentives



Black, B. S., and R. J. Gilson, 1998, ‘‘Venture Capital and the Structure of Capital Markets: Banks versus
Stock Markets,’’ Journal of Financial Economics, 47, 243–277.

Bolton, P., and E.-L. von Thadden, 1998a, ‘‘Blocks, Liquidity, and Corporate Control,’’ Journal of
Finance, 53, 1–25.

Bolton, P., and E.-L. von Thadden, 1998b, ‘‘Liquidity and Control: A Dynamic Theory of Corporate
Ownership Structure,’’ Journal of Institutional and Theoretical Economics, 154, 177–211.

Boot, A., and A. Thakor, 1993, ‘‘Security Design,’’ Journal of Finance, 48, 1349–1378.

Brennan, M., and J. Franks, 1997, ‘‘Underpricing, Ownership and Control in IPOs of Equity Securities in
the UK,’’ Journal of Financial Economics, 45, 391–414.

Burkart, M., D. Gromb, and F. Panunzi, 1997, ‘‘Large Shareholders, Monitoring and the Value of the
Firm,’’ Quarterly Journal of Economics, 113, 693–728.

Burkart, M., D. Gromb, and F. Panunzi, 1998, ‘‘Why Higher Takeover Premia Protect Minority
Shareholders,’’ Journal of Political Economy, 106, 172–204.

Burkart, M., D. Gromb, and F. Panunzi, 1999, ‘‘Agency Conflicts in Public and Privately Negotiated
Transfers of Corporate Control,’’ Journal of Finance, 55, 647–677.

Chemmanur, T. J., 1993, ‘‘The Pricing of Initial Public Offerings: A Dynamic Model with Information
Production,’’ Journal of Finance, 48, 285–304.

Chemmanur, T. J., and P. Fulghieri, 1999, ‘‘A Theory of the Going Public Decision,’’ Review of Financial
Studies, 12, 249–279.

Coffee, J., 1991, ‘‘Liquidity versus Control: The Institutional Investor as Corporate Monitor,’’ Columbia
Law Review, 91, 1277–1368.

Dewatripont, M., and J. Tirole, 1994, ‘‘A Theory of Debt and Equity: Diversity of Securities and
Manager-Shareholder Congruence,’’ Quarterly Journal of Economics, 109, 1027–1054.

Diamond, D. W., and R. E. Verrecchia, 1982, ‘‘Optimal Managerial Contracts and Equilibrium Security
Prices,’’ Journal of Finance, 37, 275–287.

Ellingsen, T., and K. Rydqvist, 1998, ‘‘The Stock Market as a Screening Device and the Decision to Go
Public,’’ mimeo, Stockholm School of Economics.

Faure-Grimaud, A., 2002, ‘‘Using Stock Price Information to Regulate Firms,’’ Review of Economic
Studies, 69, 169–190.

Faure-Grimaud, A., and D. Gromb, 2000, ‘‘Public Trading and Private Incentives,’’ Discussion paper,
Financial Markets Group.

Fishman, M. J., and K. M. Hagerty, 1989, ‘‘Disclosure Decisions by Firms and the Competition for Price
Efficiency,’’ Journal of Finance, 44, 633–646.

Fluck, Z., 1998, ‘‘Optimal Financial Contracting: Debt vs. Outside Equity,’’ Review of Financial Studies,
11, 383–418.

Fulghieri, P., and D. Lukin, 2001, ‘‘Information Production, Dilution Costs, and Optimal Security
Design,’’ Journal of Financial Economics, 61, 3–42.

Goel, A., V. Nanda, and M. P. Narayanan, 2004, ‘‘Career Concerns and Resource Allocation in
Conglomerates,’’ Review of Financial Studies, 17, 99–128.

Holmström, B., and J. Tirole, 1993, ‘‘Market Liquidity and Performance Monitoring,’’ Journal of
Political Economy, 101, 678–709.

Ibbotson, R. G., and J. R. Ritter, 1995, ‘‘Initial Public Offerings,’’ in R. Jarrow, V. Maksimovic, and W.
Ziemba (eds.), Handbooks in Operations Research and Management Science, vol. 9, North-Holland,
Amsterdam.




                                                                                                   1013
The Review of Financial Studies / v 17 n 4 2004



Innes, R., 1990, ‘‘Limited Liability and Incentive Contracting with Ex-Ante Action Choices,’’ Journal of
Economic Theory, 52, 45–67.

Jegadeesh, N., M. Weinstein, and I. Welch, 1990, ‘‘An Empirical Investigation of IPO Returns and
Subsequent Equity Offerings,’’ Journal of Financial Economics, 34, 153–176.

Jeng, L. A., and P. C. Wells, 2000, ‘‘The Determinants of Venture Capital Funding: Evidence Across
Countries,’’ Journal of Corporate Finance, 6, 241–289.

Jensen, M. C., and W. Meckling, 1976, ‘‘Theory of the Firm: Managerial Behavior, Agency Costs and
Ownership Structure,’’ Journal of Financial Economics, 3, 305–360.

Kahn, C., and A. Winton, 1998, ‘‘Ownership Structure, Speculation and Shareholder Intervention,’’
Journal of Finance, 53, 99–129.

Kyle, A. S., 1985, ‘‘Continuous Auctions and Insider Trading,’’ Econometrica, 53, 1315–1335.

Kyle, A. S., and J.-L. Vila, 1991, ‘‘Noise Trading and Takeovers,’’ Rand Journal of Economics, 22, 54–71.

Lerner, J., 1994, ‘‘Venture Capitalists and the Decision to Go Public,’’ Journal of Financial Economics, 35,
293–316.

Maug, E. 1998, ‘‘Large Shareholders as Monitors: Is There a Trade-off between Liquidity and Control,’’
Journal of Finance, 53, 65–98.

Myers, S. C., 2000, ‘‘Outside Equity,’’ Journal of Finance, 55, 1005–1037.

Myers, S. C., and N. Majluf, 1984,‘‘Corporate Financing and Investment Decisions When Firms Have
Information That Investors Do Not Have,’’ Journal of Financial Economics, 13, 187–221.

Noe, T. H., 2002, ‘‘Investor Activism and Financial Market Structure,’’ Review of Financial Studies, 15,
289–318.

Pagano, M., and A. Roell, 1998, ‘‘The Choice of Stock Ownership Structure: Agency Costs, Monitoring
and the Decision to Go Public,’’ Quarterly Journal of Economics, 113, 187–225.

Paul, J. M., 1992, ‘‘On the Efficiency of Stock Based Compensation,’’ Review of Financial Studies, 5,
471–502.

Rajan, R., and L. Zingales, 1995, ‘‘What Do We Know About Capital Structure,’’ Journal of Finance, 50,
1421–1460.

Shleifer, A., and R. W. Vishny, 1997, ‘‘A Survey of Corporate Governance,’’ Journal of Finance, 52,
737–783.

Subrahmanyam, A., and S. Titman, 1999, ‘‘The Going Public Decision and the Development of Financial
Markets,’’ Journal of Finance, 54, 1045–1082.

Wang, J., 1994, ‘‘A Model of Competitive Stock Trading Volume,’’ Journal of Political Economy, 102,
127–168.

Welch, I., 1996, ‘‘Equity Offerings Following the IPO: Theory and Evidence,’’ Journal of Corporate
Finance, 2, 227–259.

Zingales, L. 1995, ‘‘Insider Ownership and the Decision to Go Public,’’ Review of Economic Studies, 62,
425–448.




1014
