=== PAGE 1 ===
 Electronic copy available at: http://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707 
The Disciplinary Eﬀects of Proxy Contests $
Vyacheslav Fos
Carroll School of Management, Boston College
July 2015
Abstract
Using a manually collected data set of all proxy contests from 1994 through 2012, I
show that proxy contests play an important role in hostile corporate governance. Target
shareholders beneﬁt from proxy contests: the average abnormal returns reach 6.5% around
proxy contest announcements. Proxy contests that address ﬁrms’ business strategies and
undervaluation are most beneﬁcial for shareholders. In contrast, proxy contests that aim
at changing capital structure and governance do not lead to higher ﬁrm values. Relative
to matching ﬁrms, future targets are smaller, they have higher stock liquidity, higher
institutional and activist ownership, lower leverage and market valuation, and higher
investments. While most of these characteristics predict proxy contests in time-series, prior
to proxy contests targets also experience poor stock performance, decreases in investments,
increases in cash reserves and payouts to shareholders, and increases in management’s
entrenchment. These changes in corporate policies are consistent with targets’ attempts to
aﬀect the probability of a proxy contest.
$I thank Patrick Bolton, Pierre Collin-Dufresne, Wei Jiang, and Daniel Paravisini for their encour-
agement and support. I also thank Cindy Alexander, Heitor Almeida, Yakov Amihud, Gur Huberman,
Vikas Mehrotra (NFA discussant), Carrie Pan (CICF discussant), Amit Seru (the Editor), Abraham Ravid
(WFA discussant), Randall Thomas, Robert Thompson (NYU-PENN discussant), Daniel Wolfenzon, and
two anonymous referees. I also thank seminar participants at Columbia Business School, Haas School of
Business, the Graduate School of Management at UC Davis, Cox School of Business, Harvard Business
School, College of Business at UIUC, Rotman School of Management, Bauer College of Business, the
Division of Risk, Strategy and Financial Innovation at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
and participants at the WFA 2011 Annual Meeting, the NFA 2011 Annual Meeting, the 2012 China
International Conference in Finance, and the 2013 NYU/Penn Conference on Law and Finance for their
helpful comments and suggestions.
Email address: vyacheslav.fos@bc.edu (Vyacheslav Fos)
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 2 ===
 Electronic copy available at: http://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707 
The agency problem created by separation of ownership and control in publicly traded
corporations with dispersed ownership is a central topic of the corporate governance
literature, which focuses on mechanisms for disciplining incumbents. These mechanisms
range from informal “jawboning” to contests for corporate control, which are used to change
management and to obtain control in publicly traded corporations. In 1992 the regulatory
burdens surrounding proxy contests were substantially liberalized, thus reducing the cost
of engaging in a proxy contest. Speciﬁcally, the 1992 proxy reform reduced the costs of
proxy contests by relaxing constraints on communications between shareholders of public
corporations (Sharara and Hoke-Witherspoon, 1993). As a result, the frequency of proxy
contests increased signiﬁcantly after 1992. The average number of proxy contests was 56
(68) per year during the years 1994-2012 (2006-2012) as compared with an average of 17 a
year during the years 1979-1994 (see Figure 1 and Mulherin and Poulsen, 1998).
While shareholders more often rely on the proxy contest mechanism, the evidence
pertaining to the role of proxy contests in modern corporate governance is limited because
most of the existing literature uses pre-1992 proxy reform data. Do proxy contests play
an active governance role in the post-1992 period? This question has important policy
implications for debates on the optimal scope of shareholder rights in public companies
(Bebchuk, 2007; Lipton and Savitt, 2007). Whereas a conclusion that the proxy contest
mechanism is beneﬁcial provides support for strengthening shareholder rights in proxy
contests, the opposite conclusion provides support for constraining them (Bebchuk and
Weisbach, 2010). The eﬀort that the SEC, institutional investors, and business groups
expended ﬁghting for or against 2010 proxy access reform suggests that the eﬀectiveness
of the proxy contest mechanism is of central importance. 1
1In an attempt to facilitate corporate governance, on July 21, 2010 the SEC received authorization from
the Dodd-Frank Act to adopt proxy access rules and adopted signiﬁcant proxy access reform on August 25,
2010. This reform addresses concerns about the eﬀectiveness of the proxy contest mechanism by facilitating
the process of nominating directors by large long-term shareholders (Rule 14a-11). The reform would reduce
these cost barriers by allowing shareholder nominations to be included in the corporate proxy materials.
On September 29, 2010, the Chamber and the Roundtable jointly ﬁled a petition with the United States
1
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 3 ===
This paper reveals several interesting empirical regularities. First, I show that proxy
contests play an increasingly important role in hostile corporate governance. There were
1,061 proxy contests from 1994 through 2012. Whereas shareholders more frequently
rely on proxy contests, hostile takeovers became less frequent, suggesting that there was
a signiﬁcant change in hostile corporate governance over the last three decades. The
widespread adoption of anti-takeover provisions, the enactment of state-level antitakeover
laws favoring management, and the collapse of the junk bond market have increased the
cost of hostile tender oﬀers and therefore contributed to the decrease in frequency of such
oﬀers (Karpoﬀ and Malatesta, 1989; Bertrand and Mullainathan, 2003; Cremers and Ferrell,
2014). In contrast, the 1992 proxy reform, which allowed independent shareholders to freely
engage in communication without being monitored by the SEC, the rise of activist hedge
funds, and increased stock liquidity are among potential explanations for the increasing
frequency of proxy contests.
Second, I document several key characteristics of proxy contests. I ﬁnd that 81%
of proxy contests are non-control contests. These are either short-slate contests or issue
contests. The current corporate governance environment therefore resembles the ‘market
for corporate inﬂuence’ and not the ‘market for corporate control.’ When I analyze what
types of shareholders stand behind proxy contests, I ﬁnd that activist hedge funds are by
far the most frequent proxy contest sponsors: 57% of proxy contests were sponsored by
activist hedge funds. The number (proportion) of proxy contests sponsored by activist
hedge funds increased from 162 (38%) from 1994 through 2002 to 440 (70%) from 2003
through 2012. Thus, activist hedge funds often materialize the threat of launching a proxy
contest if the management is not willing to implement changes suggested by the activists
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit alleging that the reform violated several federal
statutes. On October 4, 2010, pending a judicial decision, the SEC agreed to stay implementation of the
reform. On July 22, 2011, calling the rule arbitrary and capricious, the appeals court voted to vacate Rule
14a-11, a ruling that the SEC decided not to appeal. See Becker et al. (2010) and Cohn et al. (2014) for
further details.
2
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 4 ===
(Brav et al., 2008). This result also ﬁts well with the fact that most proxy contests are
non-control contests because activist hedge funds seek not to run ﬁrms but to inﬂuence or
replace existing management.
I ﬁnd that about half (47%) of proxy contests are resolved through voting process and
that there is substantial uncertainty about the voting outcome in these cases: dissidents’
chances of failing or winning a voting contest are about 50%. The second most frequent
outcome is a settlement agreement between ﬁrm management and dissident shareholders:
267 contests, corresponding to 25% of such events, were settled, often allowing dissident
director nominees to join the board. Another important characteristic of a proxy contest
involves the stated goals of dissident shareholders. Addressing undervaluation concerns
is the ﬁrst priority of dissident shareholders (41% of proxy contests). The second most
frequently stated goal is corporate governance (39% of proxy contests). Dissidents also
often address ﬁrms’ business strategies and the possibility of selling the target company
(28% and 27% of proxy contests, accordingly).
Third, when I study the valuation of implications of proxy contests, I ﬁnd that
dissidents are more likely to initiate a proxy contest after a period of poor stock
performance: Cumulative abnormal returns (CARs) during the two years that precede
proxy contest announcements is -10%. Following proxy contest announcements the average
abnormal returns reach 6.5%, suggesting that target shareholders beneﬁt from proxy
contests. When I analyze cross-sectional variation in the valuation implications of proxy
contests, I ﬁnd that whereas the announcement eﬀect is stronger when a proxy contest is
initiated by activist hedge funds versus other types of dissidents, the CARs of two groups are
similar eight months after the announcement, suggesting that the overall changes in stock
prices are similar when these two groups of dissident shareholders are involved. Moreover,
the analysis reveals interesting relations between the valuation of implications of proxy
contests and dissidents’ stated goals. I ﬁnd that most of value creation for shareholders is
3
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 5 ===
concentrated in proxy contests that address business strategies and valuations of targets.
There is almost no value creation for shareholders when governance, capital structure, and
selling the target company are among dissidents’ stated goals.
Fourth, I study what ﬁrm characteristics predict proxy contests. Probit analysis
reveals that proxy contest targets in the post-reform environment are suﬀering from low
market valuation and poor stock performance, which dissidents typically use when they
criticize incumbent management. Targets are also characterized by high institutional and
activist ownership, which indicates a more sophisticated shareholder base, whose support
dissident shareholders often need to succeed with a proxy contest. Moreover, a company
is more likely to be targeted in a proxy contest if it has a smaller market cap, which is
consistent with the notion that it is more expensive to launch a proxy contest in a large
company. As far as corporate policies are concerned, targets are characterized by lower
investments and higher dividend payout ratios. Interestingly, the evidence indicates that
stock liquidity positively aﬀects the likelihood of a proxy contest. This result ﬁnds support
in the theoretical literature, which suggests that greater stock liquidity makes it easier for
investors to accumulate large stakes without substantially aﬀecting the stock price and
therefore facilitates shareholder activism (Kyle and Vila, 1991; Bolton and von Thadden,
1998; Maug, 1998; Collin-Dufresne and Fos, 2014).
In order to understand what ﬁrm characteristics predict proxy contests in cross-
section, I compare future targets and match non-targets, identiﬁed based on year, industry
(3-digit SIC), market cap, and book-to-market ratio. I ﬁnd that future targets are smaller
than matched non-targets, and they have lower market valuation, lower leverage, higher
activist ownership, and higher stock liquidity. Moreover, future targets invest more than
matched non-targets, suggesting that targets suﬀer from over-investment problem. While
most of these characteristics predict proxy contests in time-series, prior to proxy contests
targets also experience poor stock performance, decreases in investments, increases in cash
4
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 6 ===
reserves and payouts to shareholders, and increases in management entrenchment.
The evidence pertaining to dissidents’ stated goals and ﬁrm characteristics reveals
that ﬁrms can take concrete steps to reduce the probability of a proxy contest. To address
this possibility, I examine whether companies change their ﬁnancial policies when the
likelihood of a proxy contest increases. Consistently with this conjecture, I ﬁnd that when
the likelihood of a proxy contest increases, companies increase leverage and payouts while
also decreasing cash reserves and investments. While this relation is suggestive, one needs
to ﬁnd an instrument for the likelihood of a proxy contest to show that the relation is also
causal. This relation does suggest, however, that the proxy contest mechanism plays a
disciplinary role. That is, companies change corporate policies when the mere threat of a
proxy contest increases.
This paper contributes to several strands in the broader ﬁnance literature. First, the
paper contributes to the corporate governance literature on proxy contests. Most of the
existing literature studies proxy contests that took place prior to the 1992 proxy reform
(Dodd and Warner, 1983; DeAngelo and DeAngelo, 1989; Ikenberry and Lakonishok, 1993;
Mulherin and Poulsen, 1998). This paper therefore is the ﬁrst to provide comprehensive
evidence pertaining to the role of proxy contests in the post-1992 proxy reform period. 2
The paper shows that substantial changes in types of proxy contests took place over past
three decades. For example, activist hedge funds became the most frequent type of proxy
contest sponsors. Moreover, most proxy contests aim not at controlling the board but at
electing a few dissident shareholders’ nominees to represent shareholders’ interests on the
board of directors.
Second, the evidence documented in this paper suggests that the occurrence of a
substitution of proxy contests for hostile takeovers. While it has been documented that
2An exception is Norli et al. (2015), who study shareholder proposals and proxy contests during the
1994-2007 period. Their sample includes 331 proxy contests, a sub-sample of 1,061 proxy contests I analyze.
5
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 7 ===
hostile takeovers have played a signiﬁcant disciplinary role, several changes in the regulatory
environment and the structure of ﬁnancial markets have decreased the disciplinary eﬀects
of hostile takeovers (Bertrand and Mullainathan, 2003). As this paper shows, consequent
changes in the regulatory environment led to a signiﬁcant increase in the disciplinary eﬀects
of proxy contests.
Third, this paper contributes to the literature that studies the valuation implications
of proxy contests (e.g., Dodd and Warner, 1983; DeAngelo and DeAngelo, 1989; Ikenberry
and Lakonishok, 1993; Mulherin and Poulsen, 1998). Consistently with most existing
studies, I ﬁnd that target shareholders beneﬁt from proxy contests. Interestingly, the
overall changes in stock prices are similar when proxy contests sponsored by activist hedge
funds are compared with other proxy contests. The paper also contributes to the literature
by showing that the valuation of the implications of proxy contests depend to a great extent
on dissidents’ stated goals.
Finally, the paper contributes to the literature that studies ﬁrm characteristics of
proxy contests and of proxy contest targets. I document a substantial change in the
composition of proxy contest sponsors during the sample period: activist hedge funds
became the dominant class of proxy contest sponsors during this period. Also, this paper
is the ﬁrst to analyze factors that predict proxy contests in cross-section and in time-series.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. The institutional background and
description of the data are introduced in Section 1. Section 2 presents characteristics of
proxy contests, such as contest type, dissident type, dissidents’ stated goals, and contest
outcomes. Section 3 analyzes the valuation implications of proxy contests. Cross-sectional
and time-series factors that predict proxy contests are described in Section 4. The relation
between corporate policies and the likelihood of a proxy contest is reported in Section 5.
Section 6 concludes.
6
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 8 ===
1. Institutional Background and Sample Description
During a proxy contest, dissidents and incumbents forward proxy solicitation
materials to shareholders, who sign and return the proxy form indicating their preferred
group. The agents for each group accumulate votes via the returned proxies and cast these
votes at the shareholders’ meeting. This process is known as the contested solicitation of
votes. The SEC has Congress’s authorization to regulate proxy solicitations.
The sample of companies targeted by proxy contests (hereafter “targets”) is con-
structed as follows. In the incident of a contested solicitation of votes, the following forms
are submitted to the SEC through EDGAR: a preliminary proxy statement in connection
with contested solicitations (PREC14A) and a deﬁnitive proxy statement in connection
with contested solicitations (DEFC14A). I use submissions of these forms to identify proxy
contest events.3 First, I identify more than 6,000 ﬁlings of either PREC14C or DEFC14A
forms using an automatic searching script, which checks the existence of either PREC14C
or DEFC14A forms in EDGAR for each company in the Compustat universe from 1994
through 2012. This method identiﬁes all contested solicitations of votes in the universe of
Compustat companies. Next, I manually check the ﬁlings and identify proxy contest events
from 1994 through 2012. There are about six ﬁlings of either PREC14C or DEFC14A forms
during an average proxy contest. The ﬁnal sample is the universe of all proxy contests from
1994 through 2012 and consists of 1,061 unique proxy contests. 4
Figure 1 presents the time distribution of proxy contests during the sample period,
showing that, on average, 56 proxy contests take place each year. The last comprehensive
study of proxy contests, by Mulherin and Poulsen (1998), documents that the average
number of proxy contests was 17 per year from 1979 through 1994. Thus, shareholders rely
3Alexander, Chen, Seppi, and Spatt (2010) and Fos and Tsoutsoura (2014) use a similar approach to
identify proxy contests.
41,061 unique proxy contests correspond to 873 ﬁrms, suggesting that about 20% of ﬁrms are targeted
more than once.
7
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 9 ===
on proxy contests more frequently when they want to inﬂuence corporate governance.
[Insert Figure 1 here]
One potential explanation of the increasing frequency of proxy contests is the 1992
proxy reform. During the early 1990s regulators felt a sense of urgency regarding the proxy
rules due to the perceived entrenchment of management, brought about by three events.
First, many ﬁrms adopted stringent anti-takeover defenses (e.g., poison pills). Second, by
1991 forty states had enacted anti-takeover statutes. Third, the collapse of the junk bond
market destroyed the major ﬁnancing mechanism used to fund corporate takeovers. In
1992 the SEC introduced a proxy reform measure. The reform substantially liberalized the
regulatory burdens applying to proxy contests and thus reduced the cost of engaging in
a proxy contest. Speciﬁcally, the 1992 proxy reform reduced the costs of proxy contests
by relaxing constraints on communications between shareholders of public corporations
(Sharara and Hoke-Witherspoon, 1993). Following the reform, shareholders could contact
each other directly to discuss matters relating to the target company. Among additional
factors that contributed to the increased frequency of proxy contests are the rise of activist
hedge funds and an increase in stock market liquidity. 5
Figure 2 presents the time distribution of proxy contests and hostile tender oﬀers
from 1981 through 2012. Figure 2 indicates a signiﬁcant change in corporate governance
over the last three decades: while in the 1980s dissident shareholders more often relied
on hostile tender oﬀers, during the last decade they relied almost exclusively on proxy
contests. As discussed above, the widespread adoption of anti-takeover provisions, the
enactment of state-level antitakeover laws favoring management, and the collapse of the
junk bond market have increased the cost of hostile tender oﬀers and therefore contributed
5The increase in the frequency of proxy contests between 2005 and 2008 is consistent with pro-cyclical
shareholder activism. On the theoretical side, Burkart and Dasgupta (2014) develop a model in which
shareholder activism is pro-cyclical. On the empirical side, similar time-series properties are observed for
hedge fund activism campaigns (see Brav et al., 2008).
8
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 10 ===
to the decrease in frequency of such oﬀers (Karpoﬀ and Malatesta, 1989; Bertrand and
Mullainathan, 2003; Cremers and Ferrell, 2014). In contrast, the 1992 proxy reform,
which allowed independent shareholders to freely engage in communication without being
monitored by the SEC, is one potential explanation of the increasing frequency of proxy
contests. This study is therefore the ﬁrst comprehensive study of proxy contests that took
place after the 1992 proxy reform.
[Insert Figure 2 here]
Additional data are compiled from several sources. Firm-level accounting information
comes from Compustat. Stock returns come from the Center for Research in Security
Prices (CRSP). Institutional Common Stock Holdings come from Thomson-Reuters
Institutional Holdings Database. Corporate governance data on shareholder proposals and
the Governance Index (GINDEX) come from RiskMetrics. Table 1 describes the variables
used in the paper.
[Insert Table 1 here]
2. Characteristics of Proxy Contests
2.1. Types of Proxy Contests
There are three main types of proxy contests: control contests, short-slate contests,
and issue contests. Control contests are ﬁled by shareholders who want to gain control
over a ﬁrm’s board. Short-slate contests are targeted to obtaining a few non-controlling
seats on a board. While control contests and short-slate contests both involve contested
elections of directors, issue contests do not involve the election of a ﬁrm’s board of directors.
Issue contests either raise issues about a company’s corporate governance or are related to
proposals that are excluded by management from the proxy statement. 6
6Rule 14a-8 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 gives a shareholder who meets certain threshold
requirements the right to require management to include his proposal in management’s proxy materials.
9
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 11 ===
The classiﬁcation of proxy contests into three types was based on information taken
from dissidents’ proxy statements. I next present an example of each proxy contest type.
The proxy contest between a group of shareholders of Weis Markets, Inc. and the
company’s board of directors is an example of a control contest. In 1999 Weis Markets was
targeted by a group of shareholders who sought to remove the entire board of directors of the
company and to elect nominees recommended by the group. The group asked shareholders
to vote to reconstitute the board of directors “... to better reﬂect the shareholder base of
Weis Markets, and to approve certain resolutions and amendments to the By-Laws designed
to allow the shareholders to continue to have a meaningful opportunity to inﬂuence the
management of Weis Markets.” Members of the group beneﬁcially owned approximately
41% of Weis Markets stock, and directors and oﬃcers as a group owned approximately
47%. After the board of directors had authorized its ﬁnancial advisor to conduct a full
review of all options available to the company, including a possible sale or recapitalization
of the company, the group of dissident shareholders agreed to withdraw its request for a
special meeting and therefore terminated the proxy contest.
Short-slate contests are targeted to obtaining a few non-controlling seats on a board.
For example, two former executives of Insituform Technologies, Inc. sought to elect four
directors to Insituform’s 13-member board. In order to do so, a committee was formed
to restore value to Insituform Technologies. The committee was formed “... because of
their desire to see the value of Insituform maximized for all of the Company’s stockholders,
and their concerns that a number of the Company’s existing directors do not support the
Company’s existing strategic direction and are inﬂuenced by conﬂicts of interest.” On July
3, 1997, the company and the group of dissident shareholders announced that they had
Rule 14a-8 is commonly referred to as the “shareholder proposal rule.” It states that to be eligible to
submit a proposal, a shareholder either must have continuously held at least $2,000 in market value or
1% of a company’s securities for at least one year, or be a registered holder. Management, however, may
exclude an eligible proposal from proxy materials if the proposal relates to an election to membership on the
company’s board of directors or the proposal directly conﬂicts with one of the company’s own proposals.
10
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 12 ===
reached an agreement in principle to settle a dispute over the composition of the company’s
board of directors. The company agreed to reduce the board from 13 to 9 members,
eliminate the staggered terms of directors, and add two new independent directors to the
board. One of the new independent directors joining the board was a member of the group
of dissident shareholders.
While control contests and short-slate contests both involve contested elections of
directors, issue contests do not involve the election of a ﬁrm’s board of directors. Issue
contests either raise issues about the company’s corporate governance or are related to
proposals that are excluded by management from the proxy statement. For example,
in 2001 two shareholders of Biopool International, Inc., R. Gale Daniel and Larry C.
Fenster, asked shareholders to vote against two proposals recommended by Biopool’s board.
Speciﬁcally, Mr. Daniel and Mr. Fenster recommended voting against two items: (1)
amending Biopool’s certiﬁcate of incorporation to limit certain actions by stockholders
and (2) authorizing the issuance of preferred stock. 7 Dissident shareholders succeeded,
and these proposals did not receive a suﬃcient number of votes: approximately 21% of
shareholders supported the ﬁrst proposal and 35% of shareholders supported the second
proposal.
Table 2 presents the distribution of proxy contest types in the 1994-2012 sample.
Nineteen percent of proxy contests are control contests, and 81% are non-control contests.
The evidence suggests that proxy contests that became more frequent after the 1992
proxy reform are not control contests. Instead, these are mostly short-slate contests, often
combined with issue contests. Since dissident shareholders rarely seek control over a target’s
board, the current corporate governance environment resembles the ‘market for corporate
7In the ﬁrst proposal the board wanted to amend the company’s certiﬁcate of incorporation to (a)
prohibit stockholder action by written consent, and (b) preclude the ability of stockholders to call a special
meeting. In the second proposal the board wanted to amend the company’s certiﬁcate of incorporation
to allow for the issuance of one or more series of preferred stock, the rights, preferences and privileges of
which would be designated by the board of directors.
11
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 13 ===
inﬂuence’ and not the ‘market for corporate control.’
[Insert Table 2 here]
2.2. Sponsors of Proxy Contests
In this section I describe which types of shareholders stand behind proxy contests.
I consider ﬁve types of dissident shareholders: activist hedge funds, corporations, pension
funds, prior insiders and employees, and groups of shareholders. 8 Table 3 presents the
distribution of contests sponsors in the full sample (1994-2012), from 1994 through 2002,
and from 2003 through 2012.
[Insert Table 3 here]
Activist hedge funds are by far the most frequent proxy contest sponsors: 57% of
proxy contests were sponsored by activist hedge funds. The number (proportion) of proxy
contests sponsored by activist hedge funds increased from 162 (38%) from 1994 through
2002 to 440 (70%) from 2003 through 2012, corresponding to a 170% increase in the
number of proxy contests sponsored by activist hedge funds. Thus, activist hedge funds
often materialize the threat of launching a proxy contest if management is not willing to
implement changes suggested by the activists (Brav et al., 2008).
Other types of proxy contest sponsors became less frequent during the sample period.
The percentage of proxy contests sponsored by corporations, prior insiders and employees,
8The proxy contest sponsored by Elliott Associates against Metromedia International
Group is an example of a proxy contest sponsored by an activist hedge fund:
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/39547/000095011701501157/a31302.txt. The proxy contest
sponsored by Pﬁzer against Weaner-Lambert is an example of a proxy contest sponsored by a corporation:
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/78003/0000950123-99-010992.txt. The proxy contest sponsored
by SEIU Pension Funds against Columbia HCA Healthcare is an example of a proxy contest sponsored by
a pension fund: ttp://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/860730/0001037673-98-000003.txt. The proxy
contest sponsored by Allen Bender against TVI Corporation is an example of a proxy contest sponsored
by an insider: http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/352079/000113379608000187/tv80473.htm. The
proxy contest sponsored by the Committee to Revitalize Endocare against Endocare is an example of a
proxy contest sponsored by a group of shareholders.
12
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 14 ===
and groups of shareholders declined signiﬁcantly during the sample period. For example,
the number (proportion) of proxy contests sponsored by corporations decreased from 87
(20%) from 1994 through 2002 to 34 (5%) from 2003 through 2012. Because corporations
often sponsor contests that involve changing the controlling shareholder, this result is
consistent with the downward trend in the frequency of hostile tender oﬀers. Finally,
note that while pension funds own a signiﬁcant share of common stock and often sponsor
regular (non-contested) shareholder proposals, they rarely sponsor proxy contests. Over
the sample period only two proxy contests were sponsored by pension funds.
Overall, the evidence indicates that activist hedge funds constitute by far the most
active class of dissident shareholders. This result ﬁts well with the evidence on proxy
contest types: most proxy contests are non-control contests because hedge funds seek not
to run ﬁrms but to inﬂuence or replace the existing management.
2.3. Outcomes of Proxy Contests
Proxy contests can be resolved in four main ways: (1) a voting process, (2) a
settlement agreement between management and dissident shareholders, (3) the withdrawal
of proxy solicitations by dissidents, and (4) delisting or taking over a target ﬁrm. Table 4
presents the distribution of proxy contest outcomes.
[Insert Table 4 here]
I ﬁnd that about half (47%) of proxy contests are resolved through a voting process.
In voted contests, shareholders determine who is going to win the contest by casting their
votes in favor of either management or the dissident group. Out of 503 voted contests,
in 274 cases dissident shareholders were able to achieve at least one of their formal goals
(obtaining board seats or passing proposals). In 229 contests dissident shareholders failed to
achieve any of their formal goals, implying that in about 55% of voted contests dissidents
at least partially succeed. Thus, there is substantial uncertainty about the outcomes of
13
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 15 ===
voted contests: conditional on reaching the voting stage, dissidents’ chances of failing or
winning a proxy contest are about 50%.
The second most frequent outcome is a settlement agreement between ﬁrm manage-
ment and dissident shareholders: 267 contests, corresponding to 25% of events, were settled.
When entering into settlement agreements dissident shareholders agree to terminate the
proxy solicitation process and in return obtain concessions from management. These
concessions often allow dissident director nominees to join a board.
The third most frequent outcome is withdrawal of dissident shareholders from the
proxy solicitation process: dissidents took this step in 158 contests, corresponding to 15%
of events. While dissidents rarely state a formal reason for such a withdrawal, it is likely
that when the withdrawal decision is made dissidents believe that their chances of winning
a contest are very low.
Overall, the results reveal that dissident shareholders achieve their formal goals in
about 50% of proxy contests. They do so by either entering a settlement agreement with a
ﬁrm’s management (25% of proxy contests) or by winning the voted contest (26% of proxy
contests).
2.4. Stated Goals of Dissident Shareholders
It is important to diﬀerentiate between what dissident shareholders can formally
achieve by running a proxy contest (e.g., to elect a director or to pass a proposal) and
their stated goals. In this section I describe the stated goals of dissident shareholders.
I categorize the stated goals into the following ﬁve (not mutually exclusive) groups: (1)
general undervaluation and maximizing shareholder value, (2) corporate governance, (3)
change in business strategy, (4) selling a target company, and (5) change in capital structure
(e.g., increasing payouts to shareholders). This classiﬁcation of activists’ stated goals closely
follows Brav et al. (2008).
[Insert Table 5 here]
14
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 16 ===
Table 5 presents the results. Addressing undervaluation concerns is the ﬁrst priority
of dissident shareholders. For instance, in 41% of proxy contests dissidents indicate that
the main reason for running proxy contests is to address the general undervaluation of the
target. In these cases the interests of dissident shareholders are clearly aligned with the
interests of all non-incumbent shareholders.
The second most frequently stated goal is corporate governance: in 39% of proxy
contests dissidents want to make an impact on governance. For example, dissident
shareholders often want to enhance board independence by electing their nominees. As the
analysis in Section 2.3 indicates, dissident shareholders are often successful in achieving
these goals.
The next two most frequently stated goals are business strategy and sale of a target
company. As far as the business strategy goal is concerned, dissident shareholders often
criticize the lack of focus in an investment strategy. When dissidents indicate that
management should consider selling a target company, they often indicate that management
should contact an investment bank to facilitate that process. Dissident shareholders aim
to achieve these goals in 28% and 27% of proxy contests, respectively.
Finally, in 13% of proxy contests sponsors advocate for signiﬁcant changes in a ﬁrm’s
capital structure. These changes include requests to increase leverage and to increase cash
payouts through share repurchases and stock dividends.
Overall, dissidents’ stated goals indicate that they pursue goals that are consistent
with classical agency problems: undervaluation, lack of focus, low leverage, and insuﬃcient
payouts leading to high cash reserves.
3. Do Proxy Contests Create Value?
In this section I ask the key question regarding the well-being of target shareholders:
do proxy contests create value? To address this question, I calculate the cumulative
abnormal returns from the four-factor (market, size, book-to-market, and momentum)
15
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 17 ===
model from 24 months before the announcement of a proxy contest to 24 months after.
Figure 3 reports full sample CARs.
[Insert Figure 3 here]
The evidence shows that activist shareholders are more likely to initiate a proxy
contest after a period of poor stock performance. Cumulative abnormal returns drop below
-10% two months prior to the proxy contest announcement. The sharp decline in valuation
begins about a year before the proxy contest announcement.
How do shareholders respond to proxy contest announcements? The period from
one month before to one month after an announcement is characterized by strong stock
performance: CAR increases by more than 6.5% during that period. The sharp increase in
stock prices indicates that shareholders respond favorably to dissidents’ decision to initiate
a proxy contest (without long-term reversal). This result is consistent with ﬁndings in the
literature that document a positive stock market reaction to shareholder activism (e.g.,
Brav et al., 2008; Collin-Dufresne and Fos, 2015).
Does CAR depend on whether the dissident shareholder is an activist hedge fund?
This question is interesting because activist hedge funds are often criticized for promoting
short-term goals at the expense of long-term value. To address this question, Figure 4
reports CARs for the sub-sample of proxy contests sponsored by activist hedge funds (dark
line) and the sub-sample of proxy contests sponsored by other types of dissidents (gray
line). The evidence reveals that the overall changes in stock prices are similar when these
two groups of dissident shareholders are invloved. Whereas the announcement eﬀect is
stronger when a proxy contest is initiated by activist hedge funds, CARs converge eight
months after the announcement. Thus, activist hedge funds are as productive as other
types of dissident shareholders in creating value.
[Insert Figure 4 here]
16
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 18 ===
Next, I analyze how CARs vary with the stated goals of dissident shareholders. In
each panel of Figure 5, the dark (gray) line plots CARs for the sub-sample of proxy contests
where a speciﬁc goal is (is not) among dissidents’ stated goals (-13% vs -7%). Panel A shows
that dissidents are more likely to address undervaluation following a sharper decline in stock
prices. Interestingly, stock price appreciations following proxy contest announcements are
smaller when dissidents address undervaluation, resulting in a lower ﬁrm value 24 months
after an announcement. Thus, while addressing undervaluation is consistent with targets’
past performance, it is followed by smaller improvements in ﬁrm value.
[Insert Figure 5 here]
Panel B reveals that upon the announcement of a proxy contest target stock prices
appreciate most when dissidents aim at selling a target company (10% relative to 6.5% in
the full sample). These announcements arrive after relatively small negative CARs during
the pre-announcement period (-5% relative to -10% in the full sample). Interestingly, post-
announcement CARs behave quite diﬀerently depending on whether selling the target was
among dissidents’ goals: when dissidents state (do not state) it as a formal goal, the post-
announcement CAR exhibits a negative (positive) drift. These two groups of proxy contest
targets end up with similar ﬁrm value 24 months after the announcement.
Panels C and D show that pre-announcement CARs are smaller when dissidents
address governance and capital structure relative to the full-sample results (-15% vs -
10%). Surprisingly, these two cases exhibit quite small stock price appreciations upon the
announcement of a proxy contest. Probably most surprisingly, there are no long-term stock
price appreciations in these cases. Thus, when governance and capital structure are among
dissidents’ stated goals, shareholders typically do not beneﬁt from proxy contests.
Finally, Panel E reveals that proxy contests in which changing business strategy is
among the stated goals are announced after the sharpest deterioration in stock prices:
pre-announcement CARs reach -20% and are four times as large as CARs for proxy
17
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 19 ===
contests when changing business strategy is not among the stated goals. Moreover, when
dissidents address the business strategies of target companies, the long-term value creation
for shareholders is high: CARs increase from -20% before an announcement to -10% 24
months after the announcement.
Overall, Figure 5 indicates that most value creation for shareholders is concentrated
in proxy contests that address business strategies and valuations of targets. There is almost
no value creation for shareholders when governance, capital structure, and selling a target
company are among dissidents’ stated goals.
4. What Predicts Proxy Contests?
In this section I examine how the characteristics of targets correlate with the likelihood
of a proxy contest. To begin the analysis, I use probit regressions to estimate the partial
eﬀects of several covariates on the likelihood of a proxy contest:
Pr (PC it = 1) = Φ(Xitα21 +ζt +εit), (1)
where the dependent variable PC it is a dummy variable equal to one if the company is
targeted in a proxy contest during the year, Φ is the cumulative normal distribution, Xit
is a vector of lagged covariates, and ζt are time ﬁxed eﬀects. These regressions cover all
Compustat ﬁrm-year observations from 1994 through 2012, and include both event and
non-event observations. All independent variables are deﬁned in Table 1. Results are
reported in Table 6.
[Insert Table 6 here]
Potential proxy contest targets are seen to suﬀer from low market valuation (higher
BM) and poor stock performance (lower STOCK RETURN), which dissidents usually
use when they criticize incumbent management. As evidence reported in Section 2.4
18
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 20 ===
indicates, in 41% of proxy contests dissidents indicate that the main reason for running
the proxy contests is to reduce the general undervaluation of the target. For example,
while criticizing the incumbent board in a proxy statement, dissident shareholders of
Insituform Technologies, Inc. wrote: ”In the past, we believe the incumbent Board has
promoted poorly-conceived business strategies that resulted in a material decline in the
value of Insituform common stock. Since 1991, the S&P 500 Index has gone up 100% while
Insituform stock has gone down 63%.”
Potential targets are also characterized by high institutional ownership (higher INST),
which indicates a more sophisticated shareholder base, whose support dissident shareholders
often need to succeed with a proxy contest. Results reported in Section 2.2 reveal that
activist hedge funds often sponsor proxy contests. Moreover, it is plausible that activist
hedge funds are more likely to support dissident shareholders during a proxy contest. In
accordance with that result, targets are characterized by high activist ownership (higher
INST-AHF). Results pertaining to activist ownership are consistent with the theoretical
analysis in Fos and Kahn (2015). The authors develop a model in which the presence
of activist shareholders is one of the key factors that determines what type of corporate
governance (Exit or Intervention) disciplines a manager. In their model Intervention is
the equilibrium form of governance when a signiﬁcant share of common stock is owned by
activist investors.
A company is more likely to be targeted in a proxy contest if it has a smaller market
cap (lower MV), which is consistent with the notion that it is more expensive to launch
a proxy contest in a large company. As far as corporate policies are concerned, potential
targets are characterized by lower investment (lower INVESTMENT) and a higher dividend
payout ratio (DIVIDENDS).
The evidence indicates that stock liquidity positively aﬀects the likelihood of a proxy
contest. The Amihud measure of stock illiquidity has a large Average Partial Eﬀect (APE)
19
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 21 ===
on the likelihood of a proxy contest. In particular, a one-standard-deviation increase in
stock liquidity leads to an increase of 0 .13% in the likelihood of a proxy contest in the
full sample. Since the unconditional likelihood of a proxy contest is 0 .55% in the full
sample, the APE eﬀect of stock liquidity is of considerable economic signiﬁcance. This
result ﬁnds support in the theoretical literature, which suggests that greater stock liquidity
makes it easier for investors to accumulate large stakes without substantially aﬀecting the
stock price and therefore facilitates shareholder activism (Kyle and Vila, 1991; Bolton and
von Thadden, 1998; Maug, 1998; Collin-Dufresne and Fos, 2014). The evidence is also
consistent with Collin-Dufresne and Fos (2015), who show that activist shareholders who
often engage in proxy contests signiﬁcantly beneﬁt from stock liquidity when they purchase
a stake in a target company. 9
Probit analysis suggests that several ﬁrm characteristics are correlated with the
likelihood of a proxy contest. Therefore, probit analysis pools cross-sectional and time-
series forces that predict proxy contests. To shed further light on that issue, I next analyze
what ﬁrm characteristics are correlated with the likelihood of a proxy contest in cross-
section and in time-series.
4.1. What Predicts Proxy Contests in Cross-Section?
To begin the analysis of cross-sectional predictors of proxy contests, I compare
characteristics of future proxy contest targets (during the period that ends one year before
the event) and those of non-targets. Each ﬁrm characteristic is ﬁrst aggregated at the ﬁrm
level by taking the average over a period of years that precede the event for targets and by
taking the average over the sample period for non-targets. I use two-sample t-tests on the
equality of means between the sample of future targets and non-targets. The results are
reported in columns (1) through (3) of Table 7. Consistently with the probit analysis, future
9Collin-Dufresne and Fos (2015) use data on trading strategies of activist investors and show that
activists are more likely to purchases shares when stock liquidity is high.
20
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 22 ===
targets have higher stock liquidity (lower ILLIQUIDITY), lower market valuation (higher
BM), higher dividend payout ratio (higher DIVIDENDS), higher institutional ownership
(higher INST), higher activist ownership (higher INST AHF), and lower investment (lower
INVESTMENT) than non-targets.
[Insert Table 7 here]
The univariate analysis also reveals that during the period that ends one year before
the event, future targets perform better than non-targets in terms of both stock performance
(higher STOCK RETURN) and operating performance (higher ROA). The average ROA
ratio for future targets is 6.84% whereas the average ROA ratio for non-targets is 4.18%,
suggesting a meaningful diﬀerence in operating performance.
In addition to having higher dividend payout ratios, future targets are more likely to
initiate dividend payments (higher DIV. INITIATIONS) and have higher repurchase ratios
(higher REPURCHASES). For example, the probability that a non-target ﬁrm initiates
dividend payments in a given year is 1.36% for non-targets and 1.90% for future targets.
Furthermore, future targets have lower leverage ratios (lower LEVERAGE): 17.54% for
future targets versus 22.68% for non-targets. Finally, future targets have higher GINDEX,
suggesting a higher level of entrenchment (Gompers et al., 2003).
The above analysis compares cross-sectional diﬀerences in characteristics of future
targets and those of non-targets. The analysis does not involve matching ﬁrms from two
samples. I next compare average characteristics of future targets and non-targets for every
year during the sample period. That is, I analyze how cross-sectional diﬀerences between
targets and non-targets change over time. Results are reported in Figure 6.
[Insert Figure 6 here]
I ﬁnd that several diﬀerences in ﬁrm characteristics between future targets and non-
targets are time-persistent. Future targets have higher institutional ownership, higher
21
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 23 ===
activist ownership, lower leverage, and higher levels of share repurchases during most of
the sample period. On the other side, some ﬁrm characteristics seem to matter during
some years only. Future targets have higher returns on assets than non-targets during
the pre-2000 period only. Similarly, future targets have higher stock liquidity during the
pre-2010 period. Finally, the evidence indicates that when characteristics of future targets
and non-targets are compared within each year, several diﬀerences in ﬁrm characteristics
become insigniﬁcant (e.g., dividend initiations, investment, market cap).
To further sharpen the cross-sectional analysis, I compare future targets to matched
ﬁrms. For each targeted ﬁrm, I identify a matching non-target ﬁrm based on year, industry
(3-digit SIC), market cap, and book-to-market ratio. When market cap (book-to-market)
is analyzed, market cap (book-to-market) is excluded from the matching criteria. The
results are reported in columns (4) through (6) of Table 7. Consistently with the previous
analysis, future targets are smaller than matched non-targets (lower MV), and they have
higher stock liquidity (lower ILLIQUIDITY), lower market valuation (higher BM), lower
leverage (lower LEVERAGE), and higher activist ownership (higher INST AHF).
Interestingly, in contrast to the results of the previous analysis, the evidence here
suggests that future targets invest more than matched non-targets. The average level of
investment is 16.33% for future targets and 13.95% for non-targets, corresponding to a 17%
diﬀerence in investments. This result is consistent with one of the major stated goals in
the “Business Strategy” category. In such contests dissidents often try to persuade a ﬁrm
to adopt more conservative investment policies.
4.2. What Predicts Proxy Contests in Time-Series?
In this section I analyze changes in ﬁrm characteristics of proxy contest targets during
a period of years that precede the event. To perform the analysis, I calculate average
within-ﬁrm changes in characteristics of future targets before the event year. The results
are reported in Table 8. Column (3) reports the average change in targets’ characteristics
22
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 24 ===
between the period that precedes the pre-event year (“Before (t-1)”) and the pre-event year
(t-1). Column (5) reports the average change in targets’ characteristics between the period
that precedes the pre-event year (“Before (t-1)”) and the event year (t).
[Insert Table 8 here]
The evidence suggests that ﬁrms are targeted after a signiﬁcant deterioration in all
measures of performance. Stock returns, operating performance, and market valuation
drop before ﬁrms are targeted. This is consistent with the results reported in Section 2.4:
in 41% of proxy contests dissidents indicate that the main foal of running such contests is
reducing the general undervaluation of the target.
Increases in institutional ownership as well as in activist hedge fund ownership
naturally precede proxy contest events. Thus, not only do targets have higher activist
ownership when compared with non-targets in cross-section, they also experience increases
in activist ownership before the event starts. This result is consistent with higher stock
liquidity predicting proxy contests.
I also ﬁnd that targets experience increases in cash reserves during the proxy contest
period. This is consistent with high cash reserves attracting activists’ attention. Note that
in about 13% of proxy contests dissident sponsors indicate that they are seeking changes in
capital structure, including decreasing cash reserves and increasing payouts to shareholders
(see Section 2.4).
Some changes in corporate policies are consistent with the view that ﬁrms probably
realize that the likelihood of shareholder intervention increases: their ﬁrms exhibit poor
stock and operating performance, high activist ownership, and high stock liquidity. These
ﬁrms probably introduce changes in corporate policies that might reduce the likelihood of
intervention. Consistently with this hypothesis, I ﬁnd that future targets cut investments,
increase payouts to shareholders, and increase the cost of intervention (higher GINDEX).
Attempts to increase the cost of intervention are consistent with ﬁndings in Fos and Jiang
23
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 25 ===
(2014), who show that incumbent CEOs increase their voting power in an attempt to
maintain control.
5. What Do Firms Do when the Likelihood of Proxy Contest Increases?
What actions do ﬁrm managers take when the likelihood of proxy contests increases?
A recent study by Fos and Tsoutsoura (2014) shows that proxy contests impose a signiﬁcant
adverse eﬀect on the careers of incumbent directors. Following a proxy contest, directors
experience a signiﬁcant decline in the number of directorships not only in the targeted
company, but also in other non-targeted companies. Thus, it would be natural for
incumbents to take actions that reduce the probability of a proxy contest. Indeed, the
theoretical literature predicts that management can change corporate policies to reduce
the probability of intervention (e.g., Grossman and Hart, 1982; Fos and Kahn, 2015).
To investigate the possibility that corporate policies change when the likelihood of a
proxy contest increases, I estimate a speciﬁcation in which corporate policies are regressed
on the likelihood of a proxy contest:
yit =γ1 ˆPC ∗
it +ηt +ηi +uit, (2)
whereyit is a corporate policy of interest, ηt are time ﬁxed eﬀects, ηi are ﬁrm ﬁxed eﬀects,
and ˆPC ∗
it is the estimate of the likelihood of a proxy contest from Table 6. Because
regressions include ﬁrm ﬁxed eﬀects, the estimates are based on within-ﬁrm variations in
the likelihood of a proxy contest and within-ﬁrm variations in corporate policies. When a
corporate policy is analyzed, it is excluded from the probit regression and therefore does not
enter ˆPC ∗
it. Table 9 reports estimates of equation (2), using which I analyze the eﬀect of the
likelihood of a proxy contest on capital structure (leverage and cash reserves), investments,
and payouts (dividends and share repurchases).
[Insert Table 9 here]
24
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 26 ===
Table 9 shows that the likelihood of a proxy contest is signiﬁcantly correlated with
changes in major corporate policies. The coeﬃcient of ˆPC ∗
it suggests that when the
likelihood of a proxy contest increases, ﬁrms increase leverage and decrease cash reserves.
As far as the investment policy is concerned, companies invest less when the likelihood
of a proxy contest increases. Finally, the likelihood of a proxy contest is positively and
signiﬁcantly correlated with payouts. Companies increase dividends and share repurchases
when the likelihood of a proxy contest increases. Overall, the evidence indicates that,
following an increase in the likelihood of proxy contests, potential targets are more likely
to change corporate policies in the direction that is favored by dissident shareholders. 10
Overall, the evidence indicates that there is a signiﬁcant correlation between the
likelihood of a proxy contest and corporate policies. 11 This result is consistent with the
proxy contest mechanism having strong disciplinary eﬀects. Speciﬁcally, the threat of
a proxy contest (as measured by the probability of a proxy contest) may aﬀect major
corporate policies, including capital structure, investments, and payouts. Overall, the
evidence is consistent with the proposition that the disciplinary eﬀects alleviate the agency
problem between managers and outside shareholders. The evidence also implies that an
assessment of a corporate governance mechanism cannot be based on materialized events
10This evidence ﬁts well with other ﬁndings in the existing literature. For example, positive eﬀects
of stronger shareholder control on leverage are documented in studies of the implications of the second-
generation antitakeover legislation (Garvey and Hanka, 1999). Similarly, it has been shown that leverage
increases in the aftermath of entrenchment-reducing shocks to managerial security (Berger et al., 1997;
Saﬁeddine and Titman, 1999). Changes in investment policy are consistent with evidence reported by
Saﬁeddine and Titman (1999) and Garvey and Hanka (1999), who document that when targets increase
their leverage ratios to prevent a control challenge, they also reduce capital expenditures. Finally,
previous studies document the positive relationship between the strength of corporate governance and
dividend payouts (La Porta et al., 2000). The positive disciplinary eﬀect of proxy contests on payouts
is also consistent with the results of a survey conducted by Allen and Michaely (2003), suggesting that
management can commit to paying out cash because of the constant threat of disciplinary action.
11The analysis does not, however, imply a causal relation. To do so, one needs a source of exogenous
variation in the likelihood of a proxy contest. Unfortunately, ﬁnding an instrument for proxy contests at
the ﬁrm level is hard, if not impossible. For example, Collin-Dufresne and Fos (2014) show that under
certain conditions the market cannot ﬁgure out whether an improvement in ﬁrm value after an activism
event is due to the causal impact of the activist on a ﬁrm’s value or due purely to timing of the activist
campaign.
25
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 27 ===
only. Instead, the analysis should start from studying the disciplinary eﬀects.
6. Conclusion
This paper studies all proxy contests from 1994 through 2012. I describe time-series
distribution of proxy contests and document key characteristics of proxy contest targets.
Moreover, I show the eﬀects of proxy contests on shareholder wealth and study how these
eﬀects depend of types of dissident shareholders and their stated goals. Finally, I study
which ﬁrm characteristics predict proxy contests, both in cross-section and in time series.
The main contribution of this paper is to the corporate governance literature. The
paper shows that there was a signiﬁcant shift in hostile corporate governance: proxy
contests have become substitutes for hostile takeovers. Importantly, the proxy contest
mechanism is eﬀective in creating value for shareholders of targeted ﬁrms. The paper
also shows that ﬁrms are changing corporate policies when the likelihood of a proxy
contest increases. This result is consistent with the proxy contest mechanism having strong
disciplinary eﬀects. Future research could provide a causal interpretation to this result.
26
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 28 ===
References
Alexander, C., Chen, M., Seppi, D., Spatt, C., December 2010. Interim news and the role
of proxy voting advice. The Review of Financial Studies 23 (12), 4419–4454.
Allen, F., Michaely, R., 2003. Payout Policy. Handbook of the Economics of Finance.
Elsevier B.V., Ch. 7, pp. 339–429.
Amihud, Y., January 2002. Illiquidity and stock returns: Cross-section and time-series
eﬀects. Journal of Financial Markets 5 (1), 31–56.
Bebchuk, L., May 2007. The myth of the shareholder franchise. Virginia Law Review 93 (3),
675–732.
Bebchuk, L., Weisbach, M., March 2010. The state of corporate governance research. The
Review of Financial Studies 23 (3), 939–961.
Becker, B., Bergstresser, D., Subramanian, G., November 2010. Does shareholder proxy
access improve ﬁrm value? Evidence from the business roundtable challenge, Harvard
Law School Discussion Paper No. 685.
Berger, P., Ofek, E., Yermack, D., September 1997. Managerial entrenchment and capital
structure decisions. The Journal of Finance 52 (4), 1411–1438.
Bertrand, M., Mullainathan, S., October 2003. Enjoying the quiet life? Corporate
governance and managerial preferences. The Journal of Political Economy 111 (5), 1043–
1075.
Bolton, P., von Thadden, E.-L., February 1998. Blocks, liquidity, and corporate control.
The Journal of Finance 53 (1), 1–25.
Brav, A., Jiang, W., Partnoy, F., Thomas, R., August 2008. Hedge fund activism, corporate
governance, and ﬁrm performance. The Journal of Finance 63 (4), 1729–1775.
Burkart, M., Dasgupta, A., 2014. Activist funds, leverage, and procyclicality, european
Corporate Governance Institute (ECGI)-Finance Working Paper 429.
Cohn, J., Gillan, S., Hartzell, J., 2014. On the optimality of shareholder control: Evidence
from the Dodd-Frank Financial Reform Act. The Journal of Finance, forthcoming.
Collin-Dufresne, P., Fos, V., 2014. Shareholder activism, informed trading, and stock prices,
working paper, The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
Collin-Dufresne, P., Fos, V., 2015. Do prices reveal the presence of informed trading? The
Journal of Finance, forthcoming.
Cremers, M., Ferrell, A., 2014. Thirty years of shareholder rights and ﬁrm valuation. The
Journal of Finance, forthcoming.
27
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 29 ===
DeAngelo, H., DeAngelo, L., June 1989. Proxy contests and the governance of publicly
held corporations. Journal of Financial Economics 23 (1), 29–59.
Dodd, P., Warner, J., April 1983. On corporate governance: A study of proxy contests.
Journal of Financial Economics 11, 401–438.
Fos, V., Jiang, W., 2014. Out-of-the-money CEOs: Inferring private control premium from
CEO option exercises, working paper, The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
Fos, V., Kahn, C., 2015. Governance through threat of intervention and threat of exit,
working paper, The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
Fos, V., Tsoutsoura, M., 2014. Shareholder democracy in play: Career consequences of
proxy contests. Journal of Financial Economics 59 (6), 1271–1289.
Garvey, G., Hanka, G., April 1999. Capital structure and corporate control: The eﬀect of
antitakeover statutes on ﬁrm leverage. The Journal of Finance 54 (2), 519 – 546.
Gompers, P., Ishii, J., Metrick, A., February 2003. Corporate governance and equity prices.
The Quarterly Journal of Economics 118 (1), 107–155.
Grossman, S., Hart, O., 1982. Corporate Financial Structure and Managerial Incentives.
The Economics of Information and Uncertainty, University of Chicago Press, Chicago,
Ill.
Ikenberry, D., Lakonishok, J., July 1993. Corporate governance through the proxy contest:
Evidence and implications. Journal of Business 66 (3), 405–435.
Karpoﬀ, J., Malatesta, P., December 1989. The wealth eﬀects of second-generation state
takeover legislation. Journal of Financial Economics 25 (2), 291–322.
Kyle, A., Vila, J.-L., 1991. Noise trading and takeovers. RAND Journal of Economics
22 (1), 54–71.
La Porta, R., Lopez-de Silanes, F., Shleifer, A., Vishny, R., February 2000. Agency
problems and dividend policies around the world. The Journal of Finance 55 (1), 1–
33.
Lipton, M., Savitt, W., May 2007. The many myths of Lucian Bebchuk. Virginia Law
Review 93 (3), 733–757.
Maug, E., February 1998. Large shareholders as monitors: Is there a trade-oﬀ between
liquidity and control? The Journal of Finance 53 (1), 65–98.
Mulherin, H., Poulsen, A., March 1998. Proxy contests and corporate change: Implications
for shareholder wealth. Journal of Financial Economics 47 (3), 279–313.
Norli, O., Ostergaard, C., Schindele, I., 2015. Liquidity and shareholder activism. The
Review of Financial Studies 28 (2), 486–520.
28
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 30 ===
Saﬁeddine, A., Titman, S., April 1999. Leverage and corporate performance: Evidence
from unsuccessful takeovers. The Journal of Finance 54 (2), 547–580.
Sharara, N. M., Hoke-Witherspoon, A. E., 1993. The evolution of the 1992 shareholder
communication proxy rules and their impact on corporate governance. The Business
Lawyer 49 (1), 327–358.
Skinner, D., March 2008. The evolving relation between earnings, dividends, and stock
repurchases. Journal of Financial Economics 87 (3), 582–609.
29
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 31 ===
Figure 1: Time Distribution of Proxy Contests. The bars plot the number of proxy
contests initiated each year. The proxy contest data are described in Section 1.
30
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 32 ===
Figure 2: Rise in Proxy Contests and Disappearance of Hostile Tender Oﬀers.
The dark bars plot the average number of proxy contests initiated each year during four
sample periods. The gray bars plot the average number of hostile tender oﬀers initiated
each year. The proxy contest data are described in Section 1. The hostile tender oﬀer data
are from SDC database.
31
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 33 ===
Figure 3: Cumulative abnormal returns around proxy contests. This chart plots
the cumulative abnormal returns from the four-factor (market, size, book-to-market, and
momentum) model from 24 months before the announcement of a proxy contest to 24
months after.
32
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 34 ===
Figure 4: Cumulative abnormal returns around proxy contests: Does sponsor
type matter? This chart plots the cumulative abnormal returns from the four-
factor (market, size, book-to-market, and momentum) model from 24 months before the
announcement of a proxy contest to 24 months after. The dark (gray) line plots CARs
for the sub-sample of proxy contests sponsored by activist hedge funds (other types of
dissidents).
33
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 35 ===
(a) Undervaluation
 (b) Selling the Target Company
(c) Governance
 (d) Capital Structure
(e) Business Strategy
Figure 5: Cumulative abnormal returns around proxy contests: Does the
stated goal matter? This chart plots the cumulative abnormal returns from the four-
factor (market, size, book-to-market, and momentum) model from 24 months before the
announcement of a proxy contest to 24 months after. In each panel, the dark (gray) line
plots CARs for the sub-sample of proxy contests where a speciﬁc goal is (is not) among
dissidents’ stated goals. In Panel A the stated goal is undervaluation. In Panel B the stated
goal is selling the target company. In Panel C the stated goal is governance. In Panel D the
stated goal is changing capital structure. In Panel E the stated goal is changing business
strategy.
34
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 36 ===
(a) BM
 (b) CASH
 (c) DIVIDENDS
(d) DIV. INITIATIONS
 (e) GINDEX
 (f) ILLIQUIDITY
(g) INST
 (h) INST-AHF
 (i) INVESTMENT
(j) LEVERAGE
 (k) MV
 (l) REPURCHASES
(m) ROA
 (n) STOCK RETURN
Figure 6: Characteristics of targets and non-targets during sample period. Solid
(dashed) lines plot characteristics of future targeted (non-targeted) ﬁrms during each ﬁscal
year. Years in which the diﬀerence between the two groups was signiﬁcant at the 10% level
are shaded in gray. All ﬁrm characteristics are deﬁned in Table 1.
35
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 37 ===
Table 1: Variable Deﬁnitions.
Variable Deﬁnition
BM The ratio of the book value of equity to the market value of equity.
CASH The ratio of total cash and cash equivalents to total assets.
DIVIDENDS Dividend payout ratio, deﬁned as the ratio of total dividend payments to net
income before extraordinary items.
DIV. INITIATIONS A dummy variable equal to one if the ﬁrm initiates dividend payments.
GINDEX The Gompers et al. (2003) governance index.
ILLIQUIDITY Amihud (2002) illiquidity measure, deﬁned as the yearly average (using daily
data) of 1000
√
|Return|
DollarT radingV olume .
INST The proportion of shares held by institutions.
INST-AHF The proportion of shares held by activist hedge funds.
INVESTMENT Research and development expense and capital expenditures less the sale of
PP&E, divided by mean total assets, where the mean of total assets is the
average of current and lagged total assets.
LEVERAGE The net book leverage ratio deﬁned as (book value of debt - cash)/(book value
of debt + book value of equity).
MV Market capitalization in millions of 1980 dollars.
REPURCHASES The ratio of net repurchases (see footnote 7 in Skinner, 2008, for further details)
to income before extraordinary items.
ROA Return on assets, deﬁned as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and
amortization divided by lagged total assets.
STOCK RETURN The 12-month buy-and-hold return.
36
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 38 ===
Table 2: Types of Proxy Contests. This table presents the study’s classiﬁcation of proxy
contests into three types: short-slate contests, issue contests, and control contests. Control
contests are ﬁled by shareholders who want to gain control over board. Short-slate contests
are targeted to obtaining a few non-controlling seats on board. Issue contests do not
involve elections of a ﬁrm’s board of directors. They either raise issues about the company’s
corporate governance or are related to proposals that are excluded by management from
the proxy statement. The sample period is 1994-2012.
Number of Events Frequency
(1) (2)
Proxy Contest Type
Control Contests 199 19%
Non-Control Contests:
Short-Slate Contests 398 39%
Issue Contests 120 12%
Short-Slate and Issue Contests 310 30%
Sub-Total Non-Control Contests 828 81%
Total 1,027 100%
37
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 39 ===
Table 3: Sponsors of Proxy Contests. This table presents the study’s classiﬁcation of
proxy contests into sponsor classes. The sample period is 1994-2012. Columns (1) and (2)
report the frequency and proportion of contests for each sponsor type in the full sample.
Columns (3) and (4) report the frequency and proportion of contests for each sponsor type
from 1994 through 2002. Columns (5) and (6) report the frequency and proportion of
contests for each sponsor type from 2003 through 2012. Column (7) reports the diﬀerences
between the results shown in columns (6) and (4). Column (8) reports p-value of the
diﬀerences.
Full Sample 1994-2002 2003-2012 diﬀerence p-value
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8)
Sponsor Type
Activist hedge funds 602 57% 162 38% 440 70% 32%*** 0.0000
Corporations 121 11% 87 20% 34 5% -15%*** 0.0000
Pension funds 2 0% 2 0% 0 0% 0% 1.0000
Prior insiders and employees 120 11% 66 15% 54 9% -6%*** 0.0032
Group of shareholders 213 20% 109 26% 104 16% -10%*** 0.0001
Total 1,058 426 632
38
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 40 ===
Table 4: Outcomes of Proxy Contests. This table presents the study’s classiﬁcation of
proxy contests into outcome groups. The sample period is 1994-2012.
Number of Events Frequency
(1) (2)
Outcome Type
Voted Contests
Voted contests - dissidents win 274 26%
Voted contests - dissidents lose 229 21%
Sub-Total Voted Contests 503 47%
Non-Voted Contests
Settled contests 267 25%
Withdrawn contests 158 15%
Firm delisted or taken over 60 6%
Other 78 7%
Sub-Total Non-Voted Contests 563 53%
Total 1,066 100%
39
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 41 ===
Table 5: Stated Goals. This table presents stated (not mutually exclusive) goals of
dissident shareholders. The sample period is 1994-2011.
Number of Events Frequency
(1) (2)
Goal Type
General undervaluation/maximize shareholder value 416 41%
Governance 389 39%
Business Strategy 278 28%
Sale of Target Company 270 27%
Capital Structure 132 13%
Total 1,004 100%
40
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 42 ===
Table 6: Probit Analysis of Proxy Contests. This table reports estimates of the probit
regression: Pr (PC it = 1) = Φ(Xitα21 +ζt +εit), where the dependent variable PC it is a
dummy variable equal to one if the company is targeted in a proxy contest during the
year, Φ is the cumulative normal distribution, Xit is a vector of lagged covariates, and ζt
are time ﬁxed eﬀects. These regressions cover all Compustat ﬁrm-year observations from
1994 through 2012, and include both event and non-event observations. All independent
variables are deﬁned in Table 1. Column (1) reports probit coeﬃcients. Column (2) reports
average partial eﬀects (APE). APE corresponds to the change in the likelihood of a proxy
contest due to a standard deviation change of a covariate. Column (3) reports t-statistics,
calculated using heteroscedasticity robust standard errors and within correlation clustered
by industry (3-digit SIC). *, **, and *** indicate statistical signiﬁcance at the 10%, 5%,
and 1% levels, respectively.
Dependent Variable: Dummy (of Proxy Contest)
(1) (2) (3)
coeﬃcient APE t-stat
BM 0.0735** 0.0013 2.44
CASH 0.1294 0.0005 1.18
DIVIDENDS 0.1273** 0.0011 2.09
DIV. INITIATIONS 0.1394 0.0003 1.26
ILLIQUIDITY -0.0944** -0.0013 -2.23
INST 0.2414** 0.0013 2.22
INST-AHF 1.9592*** 0.0017 8.27
INVESTMENT -0.1877* -0.0008 -1.91
LEVERAGE 0.0724 0.0004 0.55
MV (log) -0.0409* -0.0019 -1.73
REPURCHASES -0.1081 -0.0005 -0.91
ROA 0.0647 0.0007 0.57
STOCK RETURN -1.9746*** -0.0019 -4.29
Constant -2.7518*** -16.14
YEAR DUMMIES YES
Observations 58,405
Pseudo R2 4.87%
41
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 43 ===
Table 7: Targets and Non-Targets: Cross-sectional Analysis. This table presents
characteristics of proxy contest targets and non-targets. Each ﬁrm characteristic is ﬁrst
aggregated at the ﬁrm level by taking the average over a period of years that precede the
event for targets and by taking the average over the sample period for non-targets. All
variables are deﬁned in Table 1. Column (1) reports cross-sectional averages for targets.
Column (2) reports cross-sectional averages for non-targets. Column (3) reports diﬀerences
between results for targets and non-targets and t-statistics of the diﬀerences. Columns
(4) through (6) report paired comparison of targets and matching non-targets. For each
targeted ﬁrm, we identify a match non-target ﬁrm based on year, industry (3-digit SIC),
market cap, and book-to-market ratio. When market cap (book-to-market) is analyzed,
market cap (book-to-market) is excluded from the matching criteria. Column (4) reports
cross-sectional averages for targets with available matched non-targets. Column (5) reports
cross-sectional averages for matched non-targets. Column (6) reports average diﬀerences
between targets and matched non-targets and t-statistics of the diﬀerences. *, **, and ***
indicate statistical signiﬁcance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively.
Unpaired comparison Paired comparison
Variable Targets, Non-targets Diﬀ Targets, Non-targets, Diﬀ
before before matched
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
BM 0.6917 0.5621 0.1296*** 0.6904 0.6254 0.065**
[4.71] [2.23]
CASH 0.1860 0.1949 -0.0089 0.1913 0.1772 0.0141
[-1.11] [1.59]
DIVIDENDS 0.2502 0.1970 0.0533*** 0.2505 0.2707 -0.0202
[4.71] [-1.43]
DIV. INITIATIONS 0.0190 0.0136 0.0054*** 0.0174 0.0177 -0.0004
[2.96] [-0.16]
GINDEX 8.891 8.610 0.281* 8.975 8.850 0.125
[1.79] [0.44]
ILLIQUIDITY 0.4581 0.6755 -0.2174*** 0.4660 0.5266 -0.0606**
[-7.17] [-2.02]
INST 0.3964 0.2942 0.1021*** 0.3969 0.4037 -0.0068
[9.07] [-0.49]
INST-AHF 0.0383 0.0217 0.0166*** 0.0373 0.0297 0.0076***
[10.54] [3.09]
INVESTMENT 0.1589 0.1760 -0.0171* 0.1633 0.1395 0.0238***
[-1.94] [3.29]
LEVERAGE 0.1754 0.2268 -0.0514*** 0.1705 0.1972 -0.0266***
[-5.65] [-3.06]
MV 680 583 97 686 912 -226**
[1.29] [-2.54]
REPURCHASES 0.2520 0.2013 0.0507*** 0.2595 0.2553 0.0043
[2.95] [0.18]
ROA 0.0684 0.0418 0.0265*** 0.0693 0.0621 0.0072
[4.38] [1.24]
STOCK RETURN 0.0126 0.0051 0.0075*** 0.0126 0.0108 0.0018
[5.51] [1.44]
42
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 44 ===
Table 8: Targets: Time-series Analysis. This table presents characteristics of proxy
contests targets before the event year. The sample period is 1994-2012. All variables are
deﬁned in Table 1. Column (1) reports average characteristics of proxy contest targets
during the period that ends two years before the event. Column (2) reports average
characteristics of proxy contest targets during the pre-event year. Column (3) reports
diﬀerences between results shown in columns (1) and (2) and t-statistics of the diﬀerences.
Column (4) reports average characteristics of proxy contest targets during the event year.
Column (5) reports average diﬀerences between results shown in columns (1) and (4) and
t-statistics of the diﬀerences. *, **, and *** indicate statistical signiﬁcance at the 10%,
5%, and 1% levels, respectively.
Variable Before ( t-1) ( t-1) Diﬀerence Event year, t Diﬀerence
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5)
BM 0.7012 0.7899 0.0887*** 0.8686 0.1674***
[3.49] [6.18]
CASH 0.1904 0.2049 0.0145*** 0.2000 0.0096**
[2.97] [2.51]
DIVIDENDS 0.2536 0.2918 0.0383* 0.3319 0.0783***
[1.83] [4.06]
DIV. INITIATIONS 0.0212 0.0198 -0.0013 0.0355 0.0143**
[-0.21] [2.38]
GINDEX 8.932 9.279 0.35*** 9.248 0.32***
[5.85] [6.09]
ILLIQUIDITY 0.4406 0.3721 -0.0686*** 0.4191 -0.0215
[-4.32] [-1.37]
INST 0.4159 0.4847 0.0688*** 0.4715 0.0556***
[8.29] [10.41]
INST-AHF 0.0390 0.0490 0.01*** 0.0554 0.0165***
[3.72] [6.66]
INVESTMENT 0.1752 0.1347 -0.0405*** 0.1112 -0.064***
[-5.51] [-9.92]
LEVERAGE 0.1752 0.1657 -0.0094* 0.1771 0.002
[-1.94] [0.21]
MV 652 745 93*** 649 -3
[2.95] [0.05]
REPURCHASES 0.2807 0.3600 0.0793* 0.4666 0.1859***
[1.82] [4.29]
ROA 0.0713 0.0735 0.0023 0.0566 -0.0147***
[0.51] [-2.79]
STOCK RETURN 0.0095 0.0048 -0.0047** -0.0054 -0.0149***
[-2.07] [-8.25]
43
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707

=== PAGE 45 ===
Table 9: The Likelihood of a Proxy Contest and Corporate Policies. This table
studies the relation between the likelihood of a proxy contest and corporate policies. The
table reports estimates ofγ1 from the following regression:yit =γ1 ˆPC ∗
it+ηt+ηi+uit, where
yit is a corporate policy of interest, ηt are time ﬁxed eﬀects, ηi are ﬁrm ﬁxed eﬀects, and
ˆPC ∗
it is the estimate of the likelihood of a proxy contest from Table 6. When a corporate
policy is analyzed, it is excluded from the probit regression and therefore does not enter
ˆPC ∗
it. These regressions cover all Compustat ﬁrm-year observations from 1994 through
2012. All variables are deﬁned in Table 1. Panel A reports the results for the full sample.
Panel B reports the results for non-targets. In each column, I report estimated coeﬃcients
and heteroscedasticity robust standard errors clustered by ﬁrm. *, **, and *** indicate
statistical signiﬁcance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively.
Dependent Variable: LEVERAGE CASH INVESTMENTS DIVIDENDS REPURCHASES
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5)
Panel A: Full Sample
ˆP C∗ 0.0308*** -0.0273*** -0.1279*** 0.0949*** 0.0199**
[0.0041] [0.0036] [0.0046] [0.0138] [0.0080]
Observations 55,211 55,215 55,799 55,195 55,270
R2 2.90% 1.30% 8.50% 2.30% 2.90%
Panel B: Non-targets
ˆP C∗ 0.0298*** -0.0268*** -0.1256*** 0.0942*** 0.0225***
[0.0042] [0.0038] [0.0048] [0.0139] [0.0082]
Observations 51,209 51,213 51,766 51,192 51,266
R2 3.00% 1.20% 8.30% 2.30% 3.00%
Year FE YES YES YES YES YES
Firm FE YES YES YES YES YES
44
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=1705707