                Ownership Dynamics and Firm Policies
                      with a Large Shareholder∗
          Sebastian Gryglewicz†                 Simon Mayer‡              Erwan Morellec§
                                         December 2, 2025



                                                Abstract

          We develop a dynamic theory of large shareholders and firm policies, where a block-
      holder engages with the firm to improve asset productivity and influence decisions on
      investment, financing, and executive compensation. In equilibrium, the blockholder’s
      ownership stake may grow or shrink over time driven by gains from trade that result
      from the relationship between ownership, corporate policies, and control. A feedback
      loop emerges: as the blockholder increases their ownership, it boosts investment and
      the firm’s debt capacity, while higher returns from debt and investment incentivize the
      blockholder to increase their stake. While firm policies need not maximize dispersed
      shareholder value when the blockholder is in control, limiting blockholder influence
      ultimately reduces blockholder ownership and firm value.


      Keywords: Activism, limited commitment, strategic trading, price impact, leverage,
      corporate investment, payout




   ∗
     We are grateful for helpful comments from Darrell Duffie, Thomas Geelen, Vincent Glode, Itay Goldstein,
Maxi Guennewig, Johan Hombert, Felipe Varas, Paul Voss, Liyan Yang, and seminar participants at Carnegie
Mellon University, Erasmus University Rotterdam, HEC Paris, the 2025 meetings of the SFS Cavalcade, and
the 2025 Summer Meetings of the Finance Theory Group.
   †
     Erasmus University Rotterdam. Email: gryglewicz@ese.eur.nl
   ‡
     Tepper School of Business, Carnegie Mellon University, and CEPR. E-mail: simonmay@andrew.cmu.edu.
   §
     EPF Lausanne, Swiss Finance Institute, and CEPR. E-mail: erwan.morellec@epfl.ch.
   Large shareholders, or blockholders, play a central role in corporate governance and
firm outcomes. While blockholder ownership is associated with changes in firm policies
and performance, it is also endogenous and evolves dynamically over time. This inherent
endogeneity poses a major challenge to understanding the role and impact of blockholders,
impeding both empirical analysis and policy design. Despite its importance, a comprehensive
framework capturing the interaction between blockholders, their ownership, and corporate
policies is still lacking. This paper attempts to fill this gap by developing a tractable dynamic
theory of blockholder ownership and firm policies, in which the blockholder’s stake and the
firm’s investment, financing, and compensation policies are jointly determined.
   Our framework builds upon the model of DeMarzo and Urošević (2006) by introducing
a large, strategic blockholder who influences firm outcomes through four distinct channels.
Unlike the original model, where the blockholder’s role is limited to exerting effort to in-
crease firm productivity, we incorporate additional strategic dimensions: (i ) contracting
with management under moral hazard, (ii ) influencing investment decisions, and (iii ) shap-
ing financing decisions. We show that these novel elements fundamentally alter equilibrium
ownership behavior. They generate ownership dynamics in which the blockholder may either
build or unwind its stake over time, leading to persistently high or low long-run ownership.
This richer structure also yields new insights that cannot arise in the baseline model.
   First, blockholder ownership enhances the firm’s borrowing capacity, creating gains from
trade and making blockholder ownership and debt financing complements. Second, manage-
rial agency conflicts crowd out blockholder engagement for a given level of ownership, but
can lead to an increase blockholder ownership and engagement in the long run. Third, invest-
ment also increases with blockholder ownership, but the blockholder chooses an inefficiently
low level of investment from the perspective of dispersed shareholders. Although limiting
blockholder control can boost investment at a given ownership level, it ultimately reduces
both blockholder ownership and involvement, leading to lower investment and firm value in
the long run. Fourth, when the firm’s investment opportunities are sufficiently strong or
credit market conditions are favorable, the blockholder may take over the entire firm via a
public-to-private leveraged buyout, accompanied by a rise in firm leverage.
   In our framework, the blockholder’s ownership stake serves as a state variable that influ-
ences both the level of engagement and the firm’s policies. Starting from an initial position,
the blockholder can adjust their stake through strategic buying and selling, while competi-
tive, dispersed shareholders behave as price takers. An important feature is that any gains


                                               1
from trade are reflected in the equilibrium prices. When such gains are present, the block-
holder faces higher marginal costs to acquire additional shares, meaning they experience
price impact in their trades. To minimize this impact and capture gains from trade, the
blockholder adjusts its position gradually, allowing it to earn returns on its existing (infra-
marginal) holdings while buying shares.
       The blockholder’s optimal trading strategy reflects three opposing forces. First, holding
costs lead the blockholder to sell more (or buy less), as in DeMarzo and Urošević (2006).1 A
similar dampening effect arises when share supply from dispersed shareholders is inelastic.
Second, a larger stake strengthens the blockholder’s incentives to exert costly effort, enhanc-
ing productivity and firm value. Third, blockholder ownership influences corporate policies
by affecting firm value through effort. Together, these mechanisms generate gains from trade
both directly—through higher effort that increases firm value—and indirectly—by affecting
corporate policies such as investment and debt financing. This indirect channel is distinctive
to our framework and interacts with the direct one.
       Formally, the gains from trade arising from a specific policy depend on two components:
(A) the marginal impact of changes in the policy on the blockholder’s value function, and
(B) the marginal impact of blockholder ownership on that policy. Component (B) operates
through blockholder effort, which increases with ownership and determines the magnitude,
though not the sign, of the overall gains from trade. The strength of this channel depends
on the severity of managerial agency conflicts—that is, the manager’s ability to divert cash
flows—which crowd out blockholder incentives and weaken (B).
       Component (A), in turn, depends on whether the relevant policy is chosen to maximize
blockholder value or is constrained by frictions or shaped by the objectives of dispersed
shareholders. When a policy already maximizes the blockholder’s objective, it has no incen-
tive to adjust its stake. In contrast, when frictions, constraints, or limited control distort
the policy away from the blockholder’s preferred choice, the blockholder has an incentive to
trade in order to influence that policy or relax those frictions—buying or selling, depending
on the adjustment needed to move the policy in the desired direction.
       This mechanism, component (A), operates in the model through an (1) incentive chan-
nel, a (2) debt-financing channel, and a (3) control channel. The incentive channel arises
because managerial agency conflicts lead to suboptimally low blockholder effort, inducing
   1
    DeMarzo and Urošević (2006) study a large shareholder with CARA preferences facing normally dis-
tributed shocks. Their setup implies a certainty-equivalent representation of preferences—the expected payoff
minus a risk adjustment—which is akin to the holding cost in our model.


                                                     2
the blockholder to increase its stake and strengthen effort incentives.
   The debt-financing channel arises from a commitment friction as firm owners cannot
commit to repaying debt: The firm may strategically default, triggering inefficient liquida-
tion. Firm value and the blockholder’s valuation of its holdings determine whether default
occurs and, in turn, the amount of debt the firm can issue for a given level of default risk.
By increasing ownership and effort, the blockholder raises firm value and the firm’s debt
capacity, increasing the net benefits of debt. Higher blockholder ownership increases the
benefits of debt on both margins, facilitating greater borrowing for a given level of default
risk (extensive margin) and reducing default risk for a given debt level (intensive margin).
Notably, the debt financing channel arises both in our baseline—where debt is risk-free and
blockholder ownership expands the maximum debt level the firm can commit to repay—
and in an extension with large cash flow shocks and risky debt, with greater blockholder
ownership reducing default risk.
   Last, in the baseline model, the blockholder controls and optimally chooses investment,
implying that there are no gains from trade associated with investment and that investment
policy does not interact with the blockholder’s optimal trading strategy. In this scenario,
investment is inefficiently low from the perspective of dispersed shareholders. When, instead,
investment is set to maximize the value of (majority) dispersed shareholders, it ends up being
too high for the blockholder. As the blockholder’s ownership increases, both the stock price
and investment rise, causing investment to diverge further from the blockholder’s preferred
level. This control channel creates an incentive for the blockholder to sell.
   In the baseline model, where the blockholder controls corporate policies, the dynamics of
ownership concentration reflect the blockholder’s holding costs, and the incentive and debt
financing channels. Importantly, the blockholder’s propensity to acquire shares increases
with ownership, as larger stakes amplify the benefits of engagement and debt capacity. As a
result, starting from a high initial stake, the blockholder tends to accumulate further until
reaching a relatively high target level—potentially full ownership. Conversely, with a smaller
stake, the blockholder has weaker incentives to buy and may instead sell, converging toward
a low target. Formally, there exist upper and lower thresholds for the blockholder’s stake
such that the blockholder (i ) exits when its stake falls below the lower threshold, and (ii )
otherwise increases its holdings toward the upper threshold.
   That is, our model generates reinforcing ownership dynamics: firms ultimately exhibit
either high or low levels of blockholder ownership, with intermediate concentrations being


                                              3
relatively rare—intuitively, the distribution of ownership concentration is bimodal. This
pattern aligns with evidence from U.S. public firms, where Edmans and Holderness (2017)
document that blockholder stakes tend to cluster at relatively low levels. At the same time,
a growing share of large firms is privately held, featuring highly concentrated ownership by
private equity (PE) funds. We also increasingly observe public-to-private transactions, in
which PE funds expand their stakes in public firms over time to take them private (e.g.,
through a leveraged buyout)—a pattern that can emerge in our model.
   Indeed, when debt market conditions are sufficiently favorable, the firm’s investment
opportunities are strong, and share supply is sufficiently elastic, the blockholder’s target
ownership converges toward full ownership. Under these circumstances, the model generates
ownership dynamics that resemble a public-to-private leveraged buyout. Specifically, the
blockholder gradually increases its stake up to a threshold, at which point it stochastically
acquires the entire firm at once, effectively taking it private. This acquisition is accompanied
by a jump in leverage, with the proceeds distributed as a leveraged payout.
   In general, we find that blockholder ownership—and blockholder engagement—depends
on firm characteristics and the blockholder’s ability to influence firm policies. The block-
holder is more likely to increase its stake, and less likely to exit, when debt provides greater
benefits, blockholder effort has a stronger impact on firm productivity, the firm has attractive
investment opportunities, and managerial agency conflicts are not too severe. In particular,
debt financing and blockholder ownership are complements: access to debt financing induces
the blockholder to increase its stake, while firm leverage rises with blockholder ownership.
   Our analysis also has important implications for policies that limit blockholder control,
such as governance structures like staggered boards (Bebchuk, Cohen, and Ferrell, 2009),
which aim to shift decisions toward maximizing value for dispersed shareholders. We demon-
strate that restricting blockholder control over investment can actually decrease the value
for dispersed shareholders, due to the blockholder’s endogenous response. While firms may
invest more at a given level of blockholder ownership, the blockholder will, in turn, reduce
their stake, ultimately leading to lower long-term investment. This dynamic arises from the
interaction between control, corporate policies, and the blockholder’s trading decisions, with
the blockholder decreasing their holdings due to the control channel described earlier.
   Our setting is flexible enough to incorporate several additional realistic features. First,
while debt is risk-free in the baseline model, we extend the framework to accommodate
large shocks, introducing the possibility for default and risky debt. We show that our main


                                               4
findings remain qualitatively similar in this model variant. Moreover, we find that default
risk and credit spreads are negatively related to blockholder ownership, again suggesting
that blockholder ownership and debt financing are complements.
   Second, we extend the model to incorporate stochastic holding costs—liquidity shocks—
for the blockholder. Liquidity shocks shape ownership dynamics by affecting the timing of
trades: when a liquidity shock occurs after the blockholder has built a large position, it does
not trigger exit, whereas an early shock following entry induces the blockholder to unwind
its stake. These findings reflect again the reinforcing ownership dynamics, which, in the long
run, lead to either very high or low blockholder ownership.

Related Literature. Our main contribution is to develop a tractable, comprehensive frame-
work for understanding the interactions between blockholder ownership and firm policies.
Accordingly, our paper primarily relates to the literature on shareholder activism and block-
holders (see, e.g., Maug (1998); Edmans and Manso (2011); Khanna and Mathews (2012);
Dasgupta and Piacentino (2015); Levit (2019); Marinovic and Varas (2025)). Most closely
related to our paper, Admati, Pfleiderer, and Zechner (1994), DeMarzo and Urošević (2006),
and Back, Collin-Dufresne, Fos, Li, and Ljungqvist (2018) study the trading of a large share-
holder that influences firm performance via costly effort. In these models, blockholders have
no direct influence over firm policies (there is no investment or debt financing), limiting
the scope of engagement. Our model differs from these papers by allowing blockholders to
actively shape firm policies while dynamically adjusting their stake, thereby capturing the
interplay between trading behavior, corporate governance, and firm strategy.
   We extend DeMarzo and Urošević (2006) to a large, strategic trader who influences firm
outcomes through four channels: (i ) effort; (ii ) contracting with management; and influ-
encing (iii ) investment and (iv ) borrowing decisions. Due to the novel elements (ii )-(iv ),
our model generates reinforcing and rich ownership dynamics, in which the blockholder may
gradually increase its stake, take over the firm, or exit. Our setting also yields testable predic-
tions linking firm policies to the size of the blockholder’s stake and highlighting how control
rights affect blockholder trading and firm value. These predictions shed light on the endo-
geneity and two-way feedback between blockholder ownership and corporate policies—the
central challenge in empirical analysis.
   Another strand of the literature on trading and activism related to our paper is the “gov-
ernance by exit” literature, including the papers by Admati and Pfleiderer (2009), Edmans
and Manso (2011), Dasgupta and Piacentino (2015), and Levit (2019). In these models, a


                                                5
blockholder has access to private information about firm value and may sell her block in
response to negative information. The focus of these papers is on trading by an insider who
has private information about firm value that is exogenous to her trading. These models
have a single round of trading and cannot analyze feedback from prices to blockholder ac-
tions. In contrast, in our framework, firm value—and thus the stock price—is endogenously
shaped by the blockholder’s engagement and influence on corporate policies, while also being
forward-looking and reflecting anticipated trading behavior.
    Finally, we solve for the Markov-perfect equilibrium using a methodology similar to
DeMarzo and Urošević (2006), adopted in other contexts too. For instance, Daley and
Green (2020) study dynamic bargaining with adverse selection. DeMarzo and He (2021),
Hu and Varas (2025), and DeMarzo, He, and Tourre (2023) respectively study corporate
leverage, loan sales, and the dynamics of government debt under limited commitment.


1     Model Setup
We develop a dynamic model in which a blockholder (i.e., large shareholder) invests in a firm
and influences its policies to improve firm value. The blockholder does so by (i ) exerting
private effort to increase asset productivity, (ii ) incentivizing the firm’s manager with an
optimal contract, and (iii ) shaping firm investment and financing. The blockholder can
dynamically increase or decrease their ownership stake in the firm by purchasing or selling
shares, leading to changes in effort, investment, and financing (i.e., leverage). When trading,
the blockholder faces dispersed shareholders—also referred to as investors—who take prices
as given. Trading decisions are observable to investors, who rationally take this information
into account when determining their demand for shares. All policies—except payouts to
management through the optimal contract—are chosen without commitment.

Technology. Time t ∈ [0, ∞) is continuous and infinite. There are three risk-neutral
agents with common discount rate ρ > 0: A blockholder (large shareholder), a continuum
of dispersed shareholders (investors), and a manager. We consider a single firm run by the
manager. The firm is financed with equity and debt, with θt ∈ [0, 1] denoting the fraction of
the firm’s equity held by the blockholder (with 1 − θt held by dispersed shareholders).
    Firm cash flows depend on the endogenous capital stock Kt > 0, blockholder effort bt ≥ 0,
and managerial cash diversion mt ∈ {0, 1}. Over any time period [t, t + dt], incremental cash



                                              6
flows are given by Kt dXt , where dXt is the scaled cash flow per unit of capital with:

                                       dXt = α1 dt + dNt (1 − mt ),                                          (1)

where α1 ≥ 0. In (1), dNt ∈ {0, 1} is a jump process with E[dNt ] = (α2 + bt )dt for α2 > 0.2
This specification implies that large positive cash flows arrive infrequently, while the cash
flow rate is α1 otherwise. (While the baseline model features positive cash flow shocks and
risk-free debt, Section 5 introduces negative cash flow shocks and risky debt.) Investors and
the blockholder observe the realization of cash flows dXt , but do not observe dNt or mt .
When dNt = 1 and additional cash flows of Kt are realized, the manager can divert from the
cash flows by setting mt = 1, in which case she gains a private benefit λKt with λ ∈ [0, 1)
(i.e., diversion is inefficient). In this case, investors observe dXt = α1 dt and thus cannot
discern cash flow diversion upon a shock from no shock occurring. We define

                                                α = α1 + α2 ,                                                (2)

so that expected (scaled) cash flows are given by E[dXt ] = (α + bt )dt.

Blockholder effort. As in DeMarzo and Urošević (2006), firm cash flows depend on unob-
servable blockholder effort bt ≥ 0, which entails a private flow cost 21 κKt b2t to the blockholder
for a cost parameter κ > 0. The blockholder’s private effort captures its engagement with
the firm, for instance, by appointing key personnel and board members, providing industry
connections, or developing strategies and proposals that increase the return on invested cap-
ital (such as better management of working capital, costs, overheads, purchases, or product
mix). This effort choice cannot be contracted on and endogenously depends on the stake of
the blockholder, with a blockholder who cannot commit to future trades.

Moral Hazard and Short-Term Contracting. To deal with managerial cash diversion,
firm shareholders write a contract with the manager. Since firm policies and trading are
chosen without commitment, we also preclude commitment to long-term contracts, and thus
restrict the contracting space to short-term contracts over [t, t + dt].3 We focus on incentive-
   2
      For simplicity, we adopt a specification where cash flows are always positive and the firm does not need to
issue shares to cover losses. Our findings would exactly the same if we assumed dXt = (α +bt −mt )dt+σdZt ,
where dZt is the increment of a Brownian motion and σ > 0, as in DeMarzo and Urošević (2006). However,
under the specification with Brownian shocks dZt , the firm would frequently issue new shares to cover
negative cash flows, a scenario we regard as less realistic. Nonetheless, the two specifications are isomorphic,
and cash flows are not a state variable for the blockholder’s problem under either specification.
    3
      The blockholder holds an equity stake and, by assumption, cannot write a contract with dispersed share-


                                                       7
compatible, short-term contracts that implement mt = 0.
    As shown in Appendix A.2, which formalizes the contracting problem, the contract C
stipulates performance-sensitive payments Kt dCt to the manager over [t, t + dt], with dCt =
βt (dXt −(α+bt )dt) in equilibrium and pay-performance sensitivity βt . To derive the incentive
condition, consider a cash flow shock dNt = 1. If the manager diverts the generated cash
flow and sets mt = 1, she derives private benefit λKt . Otherwise, if she does not divert cash
flow, the manager gets βt Kt . Thus, the manager does not divert cash flow if and only if:

                                                 βt ≥ λ.                                               (3)

As will become clear, both the stock price and the blockholder payoff decrease in βt , so
setting βt = λ is optimal and the incentive condition (3) is tight. In our framework, it
does not matter whether the contract is set by dispersed shareholders or the blockholder:
both parties find it optimal to choose the contract that minimizes the manager’s cash flow
exposure among the set of incentive-compatible contracts.

Capital Investment. The firm chooses the investment rate it ≥ 0 against convex invest-
ment cost 12 Kt i2t to grow its capital stock, which evolves according to

                                         dKt = (µit − δ)Kt dt.                                         (4)

In (4), µ ≥ 0 captures the efficiency of investment and δ ≥ 0 is the depreciation rate.

Debt Financing. Blockholders, such as private equity funds or hedge funds, often initiate
capital structure changes after investing in firms. To capture the effects of debt financing on
blockholder trading, we introduce dynamic short-term debt issuance as in e.g. Abel (2018),
Hu, Varas, and Ying (2025), or Bolton, Wang, and Yang (2023). As in these models, the
firm issues at any time t short-term debt with endogenous face value Lt that matures at
time t + dt. The benefits of debt are captured in reduced form by assuming that creditors
discount cash flows at a rate r ≤ ρ.4 If the firm defaults on its debt, it is liquidated, with
the liquidation value normalized to zero.
holders. That is, the blockholder’s contract with the firm is exogenous and restricted to equity. Moreover,
shareholders cannot side-contract with management, i.e., the manager contracts with the firm as a whole,
and any payments to/from the manager are borne by shareholders in proportion to their stake.
   4
     This modeling is standard in dynamic financing and investment models (e.g., DeAngelo, DeAngelo, and
Whited (2011) and Geelen, Hajda, Morellec, and Winegar (2024)), and is equivalent to assuming tax benefits
of debt r = (1 − τ )ρ, where τ ∈ (0, 1) is the corporate tax rate.



                                                    8
Timing. In our model, blockholders make decisions in two main areas: (i ) corporate policies
and (ii ) trading. The timing over a short period [t, t + dt] can be summarized as follows,
with Appendix A.1 providing a more detailed timeline. First, corporate policies and block-
holder effort are chosen, taking blockholder ownership θt = θ and capital stock Kt = K
as given. Second, trading occurs at the end of the period and the capital stock updates,
determining next-period stake θt+dt = θt + dθt and capital stock Kt+dt . Both the blockholder
and dispersed shareholders anticipate how trading will influence future corporate decisions.
In our continuous-time model, periods are infinitesimally small and, therefore, the exact
timing—while useful in guiding intuition—does not matter. Specifically, in the chosen tim-
ing convention, the blockholder trades after debt is repaid. However, as shown in Section
2.3, trading could occur both before and after debt repayment without altering the results.
      At the beginning of time t, after debt is repaid and before new debt is issued, we denote
the blockholder’s value function by Vt and equity value (i.e., firm value) by Pt . As we show
later in Lemma 1, the firm optimally defaults on debt just after issuance when Vt < θt Lt
or Pt < Lt , irrespective of whether the blockholder or investors control the default decision.
Clearly, creditors find it suboptimal to extend an amount of debt Lt that triggers immediate
default. As in Abel (2018), this implies an endogenous borrowing constraint5

                                    θt Lt ≤ Vt   and Lt ≤ Pt .                                    (5)

This borrowing constraint states that the blockholder and dispersed shareholders are pro-
tected by limited liability, i.e., they cannot commit to a particular ownership stake and can
always choose to exit and obtain a weakly positive payoff. Therefore, in equilibrium, their
continuation payoffs must remain positive at all times. Given the dynamics of cash flows in
equation (1), constraint (5) implies that debt is risk-free, so that the fair interest rate on
debt is rt = r and the default time T equals +∞. Section 5 introduces large jump shocks to
the firm’s capital stock, leading to default and rendering debt risky.

Holding Costs and Benefits. We make two assumptions that affect the blockholder’s
and dispersed shareholders’ incentives to trade. First, as in prior models of blockholder
investors (DeMarzo and Urošević, 2006; Marinovic and Varas, 2025) and dynamic trading
models (Du and Zhu, 2017; Duffie and Zhu, 2017), the blockholder incurs a flow holding cost
1
2
  πθt2 ≥ 0, that scales with the size of its investment in the firm as captured by firm size Kt .
  5
    A similar constraint arises as part of an optimal long-term contract in Hartman-Glaser, Mayer, and
Milbradt (2025). Lemma 1 will establish this borrowing constraint formally.


                                                  9
As discussed in Duffie and Zhu (2017), this disutility flow may reflect, in reduced form, the
blockholder’s financial or capital constraints or higher cost of capital.
    Second, we incorporate a holding benefit, η(θ), that dispersed investors derive from hold-
ing the stock. Appendix B.7 provides a micro-foundation for the holding benefit, where
we derive the functional form (our findings go through under different functional forms):6
η(θ) = π I [θ − θ]
                e + , with [·]+ = max{0, ·}, for parameters π I > 0 and θe ∈ [0, 1]. This holding
benefit introduces inelasticity in supply (Koijen, Richmond, and Yogo, 2024; Haddad, Hueb-
ner, and Loualiche, 2025), making it costly for the blockholder to build up large stakes.7
Section 4 shows that without such holding benefit, we can solve for an equilibrium with
qualitatively similar properties.

Blockholder Payoffs. We next specify the payoffs of the blockholder and dispersed in-
vestors, where we assume for now that the blockholder controls managerial contracts and
financing and investment decisions. Note that we could equivalently assume that the man-
ager chooses investment it and/or debt. Because Kt is observable and dKt is deterministic,
investment it and debt level could be contracted upon.
    Assuming that the blockholder chooses the level of debt Lt and the manager’s contract Ct
is without loss in generality because, as we demonstrate later, both the blockholder and the
dispersed investors agree on the optimal level of debt and the managerial contract. However,
the allocation of control rights over investment decisions affects equilibrium outcomes, as we
discuss in more detail in Section 3.
    At time t = 0, the firm starts with zero debt, i.e., L0− = 0, and there is a potentially
discrete debt issuance dL0 > 0. When the blockholder holds a stake in the firm, it chooses
its effort bt , trading dθt , debt issuance dLt , investment it , and contract Ct to maximize:
                                            Z T
                                                                      Kt i2t
                                                         
                                                   −ρt
                                                                                                      
   V0 =            max                 E0          e      θt Kt dXt −        dt − Kt dCt + Lt (ρ − r)dt         (6)
          (bt ,dθt ,dLt ,it ,Ct )t≥0          0                        2
                                                                          2
                                                                                   κb2t
                                                                                                            
                                                                             πθt
                                                                    − Kt         +        du − (Pt + dPt )dθt .
                                                                              2      2
   6
     This micro-foundation links the holding benefit to heterogeneous demand (Koijen and Yogo, 2019) among
certain dispersed investors—such as index investors—who assign significant value to the stock.
   7
     This assumption ensures the existence of a unique Markov equilibrium with continuous prices and trading
in our model. As we show in Section 4, without such holding benefit, we can solve for an equilibrium with
qualitatively similar properties, but featuring both smooth and lumpy trading, as it may become optimal
for the blockholder to conduct large trades, notably in the context of public-to-private transactions. By
contrast, the blockholder’s holding cost, while affecting trading dynamics, is not essential for our formal
results, notably for the existence and uniqueness of an equilibrium.



                                                                  10
Because the blockholder owns a fraction θt of the firm, it collects a fraction θt of dividends
          Kt i2t                                                                      κb2
(Kt dXt −   2
                 dt − Kt dCt + Lt (ρ − r)dt), while incurring the full cost of effort 2t and the
                     πθ2
flow holding cost 2t . The term −(Pt + dPt )dθt captures the payoff from trading over a
short time period [t, t + dt]. The blockholder has price impact and trades over [t, t + dt]
at “end-of-period” price Pt+dt = Pt + dPt . Although we do not explicitly account for it in
our notation, the blockholder’s expectation in (6) is taken under its information set, which
involves its own effort choice bt . All controls are chosen without commitment.
    To understand how debt issuance affects the blockholder’s payoff, note that issuing an
additional dollar of debt at time t and paying it out as a dividend, while repaying debt and
interest at time t + dt, changes the blockholder’s payoff over [t, t + dt] by θt 1 − θ(1 − ρdt)(1 +
rdt) = θt (ρ − r)dt, since terms of order (dt)2 are negligible in continuous time. As such, the
level of debt changes the blockholder’s flow payoff by θt (ρ − r)Lt dt.

Investors’ Payoff and Stock Price. Due to the blockholder’s private effort and holding
costs as well as dispersed shareholders’ holding benefit, the value of the firm for dispersed
shareholders differs from V0 (scaled by θ) and equals
                  Z T
                                                     i2t
                                                                                           
                             −ρt
        P0 = E0          e             Kt       dXt − dt − Kt dCt + (ρ − r)Lt dt + Kt η(θt )dt ,   (7)
                    0                                2

where investors anticipate the level of blockholder effort and managerial cash diversion when
forming expectations; in optimum, the information sets and expectations of the manager,
the blockholder, and dispersed investors coincide. As shown by (7), the stock price is the
expected discounted value of all future dividends, including the holding benefit Kt η(θt ).


2     Model Solution and Markov Equilibrium
To ensure that valuations remain finite and that µi < r + δ always holds in equilibrium, both
with and without blockholder ownership, we assume that

                                                              µ2 (1 + 2κα)
                                                 (r + δ)2 >                .                       (8)
                                                                    κ




                                                              11
Second, to ensure that some blockholder ownership is optimal and occurs in equilibrium, we
assume that holding costs are not prohibitively large, in that

                                                     1 − λ2
                                                π<          .                                  (9)
                                                       κ

If this condition is not satisfied, the blockholder does not invest in the firm (θt = 0), leading
to the dispersed ownership benchmark discussed in the following proposition.

Proposition 1 (Dispersed ownership benchmark). In the dispersed ownership benchmark,
policies are chosen to maximize firm value. The managerial contract satisfies βt = λ while
blockholder effort is zero. Model quantities scale linearly in Kt = K with debt issuance
satisfying L0t = Kt p0 for ρ√> r and L0t ∈ [0, Kt p0 ] for ρ = r, and scaled firm value satisfying
                        r+δ−   (r+δ)2 −2 α µ2
Pt0 = Kt p0 with p0 =            µ2
                                                and i0 = µp0 .

   In the dispersed ownership benchmark, model quantities, including debt, scale with Kt
or are constant, as is the case for effort or the investment rate. Any dynamics in the model
will arise from the blockholder’s trading, with the blockholder stake emerging as key state
variable in equilibrium.


2.1    Continuous, Scaled Markov Equilibrium
We now turn to solving the model with a large shareholder. Our model features a dynamic
trading game in which the blockholder acts as a large strategic player that internalizes the
impact of its trades on prices. The blockholder faces a continuum of competitive, dispersed
shareholders who take prices as given. We solve for a Markov Equilibrium with the block-
holder’s ownership stake θt and capital Kt as state variables. In particular, we focus on
equilibria with the following properties:

  1. Markovian Payoffs with Scaling Property and Continuity. The value function
      of the blockholder satisfies (6) and the firm’s stock price satisfies (7) given equilibrium
      policies. Payoffs scale with the capital stock Kt , in that Vt = Kt v(θt ), Lt = Kt ℓ(θ),
      and Pt = Kt p(θt ) for continuous functions v(θ) and p(θ).

  2. Markovian Equilibrium Policies. The blockholder takes the current state (Kt , θt ) =
      (K, θ) as given when optimizing its payoff according to (6), i.e., equilibrium policies are
      Markov processes. Equilibrium efforts (at , mt )t≥0 , investment (it )t≥0 , debt (Lt )t≥0 are


                                                     12
      Markov processes chosen according to (6). In particular, the trading strategy (dθt )t≥0 ,
      maximizing (6), is a Markov process that determines, given θt = θ ∈ [0, 1], the value of
      lims↓t θs = θt + dθt where dθt ∈ [−θt , 1 − θt ]. The trading strategy solves for any t ≥ 0:

                         dθt ∈ arg       max          Kt {v(θt + ∆) − ∆p(θt + ∆)} ,          (10)
                                     ∆∈[−θt ,1−θt ]


      given the price P (K, θ) = Kp(θ) and the value function V (K, θ) = Kv(θ).

   We refer to equilibria satisfying these properties as continuous, scaled Markov equilibria.
We will demonstrate the existence of a unique continuous, scaled Markov equilibrium, pro-
vided that η(1) = π I (1 − e
                           θ) satisfies condition (A.1). This condition states that investors’
demand for the stock is sufficiently inelastic, so that it is too costly for the blockholder to
take over the entire firm. Given this, the blockholder’s equilibrium trading is smooth, in that
dθ = θ̇dt for an endogenous trading rate θ̇. For simplicity, we will hereafter refer to p(θ),
v(θ), and ℓ(θ) as the stock price, value function, and debt, respectively, omitting the term
“scaled” for convenience. Unless otherwise mentioned, we assume that (A.1) holds. In Sec-
tion 4, we relax this assumption and show that our findings remain qualitatively unchanged,
yet the blockholder may conduct large trades, e.g., in the context of a full takeover.


2.2     Effort Choice and Contracting
A first channel through which the blockholder influences firm value is through their effort.
The following proposition, proven in Appendix A.2, characterizes blockholder effort and the
manager’s pay performance sensitivity β.

Proposition 2. The manager’s pay performance sensitivity satisfies β = λ. Blockholder
effort satisfies
                                                      θ(1 − λ)
                                             b=                .                             (11)
                                                          κ
   As neither the blockholder nor dispersed shareholders benefit from increasing managerial
incentives above λ, it holds that β = λ. Blockholder effort in (11) increases with ownership
θ and decreases with the severity of managerial moral hazard, i.e., β = λ. Indeed, since
blockholder effort is unobservable and cannot be contracted with the manager, a fraction
β = λ of the benefits of effort are shared with management through the incentive contract,
reducing blockholder effort. In addition, when the blockholder only owns part of the firm’s
equity, the benefits of higher effort are shared with other investors. That is, when θ < 1 or

                                                       13
λ > 0, the blockholder incurs the full cost of effort but captures only part of its benefits.
As we will show, managerial agency conflicts (λ) crucially affect the blockholder’s trading
decisions and ownership dynamics.


2.3       Trading and Default
We next turn to the decision to default on debt and the blockholder’s decision to trade. We
define the blockholder’s (scaled) valuation of the firm:

                                                            v(θ)
                                                 y(θ) :=         ,                            (12)
                                                             θ

which will play a key role in the analysis. As we show, the blockholder’s valuation of the
firm is generally below that of dispersed shareholders. The blockholder’s valuation of the
firm’s equity is then y(θ) − ℓ, dispersed shareholders’ valuation of equity reads p(θ) − ℓ, and
the borrowing constraint (5) can be rewritten as ℓ ≤ min {y(θ), p(θ)}. The following Lemma
shows that there is no default if and only if (5) holds.

Lemma 1. Consider state (K, θ) with θ > 0 reached after time t > 0 with positive probability
and suppose p(0) < y(θ) ≤ p(θ), which is satisfied in equilibrium. The following holds:

  1. The firm does not default if and only if constraint (5) holds, irrespective of whether the
        blockholder or dispersed shareholders control the default decision.

  2. As long as (5) holds, the gains from trade are the same, irrespective of whether the
        blockholder trades just before or after debt is repaid (or at both times).

      Intuitively, if (5) holds, both dispersed shareholders and the blockholder are better off not
defaulting. On the other hand, if (5) does not hold, we show in the proof of Lemma 1 that
the blockholder would optimally sell its entire stake (at any weakly positive price), causing
the stock price to drop and making it optimal for dispersed shareholders to default. Lemma 1
implies that, regardless of the allocation of control rights, the firm defaults immediately after
debt issuance whenever ℓ > min {y(θ), p(θ)}. Thus, constraint (5) must hold in equilibrium
and pins down the maximum amount of debt the firm can issue.
      With (5) being met, there is no default. The second part of Lemma 1 shows that, when
(5) holds, the blockholder realizes the same payoff and chooses the same next-period stake
θt+dt , irrespective of whether it trades just before or after debt is repaid (or at both times).8
  8
      Taking the limit θ̂ → θ, this argument also applies to infinitesimal trades.


                                                       14
Thus, the blockholder is indifferent between the timing of trade over [t, t + dt], and optimally
trades after debt repayment. Likewise, dispersed shareholders are also indifferent regarding
the blockholder’s timing of trade, i.e., the pricing of the stock is not affected by the exact
timing of trade.9 For convenience and without loss of generality, we consider below that the
blockholder only trades after debt is repaid.


2.4       Blockholder Value Function
We next want to understand how trading and corporate investment and financing interact.
To do so, we first show in Appendix A.7 that the blockholder optimally trades smoothly in
equilibrium, i.e., dθ = θ̇dt and that its value function satisfies the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman
(HJB) equation:

                            i2            πθ2 κb2
                                                                           
                                                                  ′
 (ρ + δ)v(θ) = max θ α + b − + (ρ − r)ℓ −    −    + µiv(θ) + θ̇ (v (θ) − p(θ)) ,
               ℓ,θ̇,i       2              2   2
                                                                              (13)
which is solved subject to the borrowing constraint ℓ ≤ min {p(θ), y(θ)} derived in Lemma 1
and the incentive condition (11) derived in Proposition 2. In (13), the term θ̇ (v ′ (θ) − p(θ))
represents the gains associated with smooth trading. For an interior solution where θ̇ ∈
(−∞, ∞), it must hold that:
                                              p(θ) = v ′ (θ).                                          (14)

Indeed, the blockholder is willing to pay v ′ (θ) dollars for an additional unit of stock. The cost
of purchasing this additional unit equals the market price of the stock p(θ) (i.e., dispersed
investors’ valuation). In equilibrium, the marginal benefit of purchasing an additional share
equals the marginal cost, leaving the blockholder indifferent between trading and not trading.
       Two key points emerge from this condition. First, while the blockholder earns no gains
on the marginal trade itself (since v ′ (θ) = p(θ)), it can still realize gains on its infra-marginal
holdings when trading smoothly. These infra-marginal gains are embedded in the value
function v(θ), which plays a central role in the analysis. In particular, we will use this
to characterize the total gains from trade, determine the portion that the blockholder can
capture, and identify the equilibrium trading rate. Second, because (14) holds in equilibrium,
the value function v(θ) can be determined “as if” the blockholder could not trade and v(θ)
   9
    This finding holds more generally. However, it is immediate to see that, because the blockholder will
trade smoothly in equilibrium, the timing of trade does not affect shareholders’ payoff and the stock price.



                                                    15
coincides with the payoff v̂(θ) that would prevail in the absence of trading opportunities. In
other words, v̂(θ) is the solution to (13) when θ̇ = 0, which can be solved explicitly, as shown
in equation (A.6) in the Appendix.
   The following lemma characterizes the blockholder’s value function and the stock price
under smooth trading:

Lemma 2. The following holds when the blockholder trades smoothly in equilibrium:

  1. The value function of the blockholder satisfies V (K, θ) = Kv(θ), with v(θ) solving (13)
      and satisfying v(θ) = v̂(θ) where v̂(θ) is available in closed form in (A.6). The stock
      price satisfies P (θ, K) = Kp(θ) for a function p(θ) satisfying p(θ) = v ′ (θ) and solving
      (16) below; p(θ) is available in closed form in (A.7) with p(0) = p0 .

  2. The value function of the blockholder v(θ) is increasing and convex in its stake θ, in
      that v ′ (θ), v ′′ (θ) > 0 with v(0) = 0. As such, the stock price p(θ) = v ′ (θ) > y(θ)
      increases with the equity stake of the blockholder.

   As established in Lemma 2, the value function of the blockholder is increasing and convex
in θ. Together with (14) and v(0) = 0, this implies y(θ) < p(θ). That is, the blockholder’s
marginal valuation v ′ (θ) of an additional unit of stock coincides with the stock price p(θ).
However, its valuation of the firm y(θ) lies below the marginal valuation and the stock price.
As a result, the borrowing constraint (5) reduces to ℓ ≤ y(θ). Since the blockholder’s scaled
payoff increases in ℓ, it is optimal to issue as much debt as its borrowing constraint allows.
Therefore, the borrowing constraint binds. This leads to the following result:

Corollary 1. Book leverage, ℓ(θ) = y(θ), and investment, i(θ) = µy(θ) increase with the
blockholder’s ownership stake θ.

   Larger blockholder ownership and thus engagement via effort enhance firm value, relaxing
the firm’s borrowing constraints and increasing the marginal value of capital and investment.
That is, blockholder ownership (and trading) affects corporate policies. We next show that
corporate policies lead to gains from trade and affect the blockholder’s trading rate.




                                              16
2.5      Equilibrium Trading
To characterize equilibrium trading, we first determine the blockholder’s valuation of an
additional unit of stock. Differentiating (13) and using p(θ) = v ′ (θ) = dv(θ)
                                                                           dθ
                                                                                gives:

                           i2                                          θλ(1 − λ)
 (ρ + δ − µi)p(θ) = α + b − + (ρ − r)ℓ(θ) − πθ +                                        + θ(ρ − r)ℓ′ (θ) . (15)
 |      {z      } |        2   {z            }                         | {zκ }             |    {z      }
                 dv(θ)                                                                            ∂v(θ) ∂ℓ
      (ρ+δ−µi)    dθ                  (ρ+δ−µi)
                                                 ∂v(θ)
                                                                   (ρ+δ−µi)(
                                                                             ∂v(θ) ∂b
                                                                                      )
                                                                                         (ρ+δ−µi)( ∂ℓ ∂θ   )
                                                  ∂θ                          ∂b   ∂θ



In addition to (15) (derived from the valuation equation of blockholders), p(θ) satisfies the
pricing equation of dispersed price-taking shareholders (resulting from (7)):

                                                   i2
                         (ρ + δ − µi)p(θ) = α + b − + (ρ − r)ℓ(θ) + p′ (θ)θ̇ + η(θ).                      (16)
                                                   2

Combining (15) and (16) yields the blockholder’s equilibrium trading rate:
                                    "                                          #
                                  1                    θλ(1 − λ)
                           θ̇ = ′     θ(ρ − r)ℓ′ (θ) +           − (πθ + η(θ)) .                          (17)
                               p (θ) |     {z      } | {z  κ } |       {z    }
                                       Debt financing                        Effective
                                          channel        Effort-incentive   holding cost
                                                             channel



Corporate Policies and Gains from Trade. Equation (17) can be more generally written
as:                                   "                                     #
                                   1                 X ∂v(θ) ∂x            
                            θ̇ = ′      (ρ + δ − µi)            − πθ + η(θ) ,                             (18)
                                p (θ)                x∈X
                                                         ∂x ∂θ

where X := {b, ℓ, i} is the set of policies chosen by the blockholder. As expected, the trading
rate decreases with both the blockholder’s holding costs and the holding benefits enjoyed by
dispersed investors (capturing inelastic share supply). Equations (17) and (18) also show
that gains from trade can arise through changes in corporate policies x. These gains are
governed by the product of (A) the marginal effect of policy x on the blockholder’s value,
∂v(θ)
 ∂x
      , and (B) the marginal effect of ownership on that policy, ∂x
                                                                 ∂θ
                                                                    .
      Component (A) reflects whether the policy is chosen optimally from the blockholder’s
perspective or is distorted by frictions or by other agents’ objectives. If a policy already
maximizes the blockholder’s value—in that the first-order condition holds, ∂v(θ)
                                                                            ∂x
                                                                                 = 0—the
blockholder has no incentive to adjust its stake, and there are no gains from trade associated
with that policy. By contrast, when a policy is distorted away from the blockholder’s pre-
ferred level, so that ∂v(θ)
                       ∂x
                            ̸= 0, the blockholder trades to influence the policy in the desired


                                                         17
direction. In particular, a positive (negative) ∂v(θ)
                                                 ∂x
                                                      provides incentives to buy (sell).
      Component (B) operates through blockholder effort, which determines the magnitude,
but not the sign, of the overall gains from trade. Other policies depend on blockholder
ownership only indirectly through this effort channel, with (B) capturing the strength of
this pass-through. Blockholder effort is pinned down by incentive-compatibility condition
b(θ) = (1−λ)θ
          κ
                                                                   ∂b
              . Effort therefore increases with ownership, in that ∂θ = 1−λ
                                                                         κ
                                                                            . The pass-through
from ownership to corporate policies (B) is weaker when managerial agency conflicts λ are
higher or when the cost of effort κ is larger. It vanishes when either λ → 1 or κ → ∞.

Effort-Incentive Channel. The origins of gains from trade arising from the product of (A)
                                                          ∂b
and (B) can be transparently illustrated for x = b, where ∂θ = 1−λ
                                                                κ
                                                                           λθ
                                                                   and ( ρ+δ−µi ) ∂v(θ)
                                                                                   ∂b
                                                                                        = λθ.
As discussed in Section 2.2, managerial agency conflicts crowd out blockholder incentives
and the resulting blockholder effort is inefficiently low. The gains from additional effort,
  λθ
ρ+δ−µi
       , increase with managerial agency frictions λ, which distort blockholder effort, and
with the size of the blockholder’s holdings θ, on which the gains are realized.
      Together, these forces generate gains from trade θλ(1−λ)
                                                          κ
                                                               , which are hump-shaped in λ.
When agency frictions are low (λ small), there is little scope for improvement; when they
are very high (λ large), ownership has little effect on effort b. At intermediate levels of moral
hazard, the product λ(1 − λ) peaks, producing the strongest incentive for the blockholder to
expand its ownership stake in order to bring effort closer to the desired level.

Debt Financing Channel. For x = ℓ, we have (ρ + δ − µi) ∂v(θ)
                                                         ∂ℓ
                                                              = θ(ρ − r) > 0, and
∂ℓ
∂θ
   = y ′ (θ) > 0. The first effect captures the additional benefits from debt (θ(ρ − r)) that the
blockholder enjoys on its existing holdings. The latter effect—that debt financing increases
with ownership—operates through effort: Higher ownership θ induces greater effort, which
raises firm value and thereby relaxes the (binding) borrowing constraint (5). This effect is
                ∂b
proportional to ∂θ = 1−λ
                      κ
                         and thus vanishes when either λ → 1 or κ → ∞.10 Together, these
effects generate positive gains from trade associated with debt financing.
      Formally, this debt-financing channel arises from a commitment friction: firm owners
cannot commit to repaying debt, and the firm may strategically default, triggering inefficient
liquidation. The blockholder’s valuation of its stake determines the likelihood of default and,
in turn, the amount of debt the firm can issue for a given level of default risk. In our baseline,
default risk is zero (one) when ℓ(θ) ≤ y(θ) (ℓ(θ) > y(θ)), while the firm exhausts its (risk-
                                                   ∂ℓ
 10
      When µ = π = 0, this relation is explicit as ∂θ = 1−λ 1+λ
                                                         κ 2(r+δ) , but the result holds more generally.




                                                      18
free) borrowing capacity, ℓ(θ) = y(θ). Greater blockholder ownership strengthens effort
incentives, and raises firm value and borrowing capacity, unlocking greater benefits of debt.
This channel also operates when the firm is subject to large cash flow shocks (Section 5).11

Investment. When the blockholder controls investment, investment solves the first-order
condition ∂v
          ∂i
             = 0, so there are no direct gains from trade associated with investment. How-
ever, investment affects firm value and thus the strength of the debt-financing channel.

Overall Gains from Trade. The sign of the trading rate θ̇ in (17) is determined by the
balance between the trading gains associated with corporate policies and the effective holding
costs. These trading gains scale with the blockholder’s stake and vanish at θ = 0, while the
holding cost dominates near θ = 1, so θ̇ starts at zero, becomes negative at high ownership,
and can cross zero only finitely many times. The following proposition characterizes the
resulting stationary points and the global dynamics of θ.

Proposition 3 (Dynamics of the blockholder stake). The equilibrium trading rate θ̇ = θ̇(θ)
is given in (17), and satisfies θ̇(0) = 0 and θ̇(1) < 0. Define (for µ > 0 and indicator I{·}):12
                     "                                              #
                                                  2        2      2
            κ                             (ρ −  r)  (1 − λ   − κπ)
 Θ := 2                (r + δ)2 − 2µ2 α −                             I{κπ > λ(1 − λ)}. (19)
     µ (1 − λ2 − κπ)                         4 (κπ − λ(1 − λ))2

There exist thresholds 0 ≤ θ ≤ θ such that θ̇(θ) = θ̇(θ) = 0 and

   1. When Θ is negative, then θ = 0 < θ < 1. Then, θ̇ > 0 for all θ ∈ (0, θ) and θ̇ < 0 for
         all θ ∈ (θ, 1). For any initial state θ0 > 0, the blockholder stake converges to θ.

   2. When Θ takes intermediate values (i.e., Θ ∈ (0, θ)),
                                                      e then θ = Θ < θ < 1. Then, θ̇ > 0
         for all θ ∈ (θ, θ) and θ̇ < 0 for all θ ∈ (0, θ) and θ ∈ (θ, 1). For initial stakes θ0 > θ,
         the blockholder stake converges to θ. Initial stakes θ0 < θ lead to gradual exit.

                                 e then θ = θ = 0 and θ̇ < 0 for all θ ∈ [0, 1]. For any
   3. When Θ is large (i.e., Θ > θ),
         initial state θ0 > 0, the blockholder gradually divests and exits.

       The term Θ inversely captures the blockholder’s incentives to hold a “large” ownership
stake, with larger Θ being linked to lower target ownership. As shown by equation (19),
this term depends on model parameters that capture the blockholder’s impact (effort cost)
  11
     Section 5, we show that higher ownership reduces the firm’s default probability for a given level of debt
and, conversely, the amount of debt the firm can issue holding default risk fixed.
  12
     The case µ = 0 is nested by taking the limit µ → 0.


                                                     19
or reflect corporate policies, such as the interest on deb r or the efficiency of investment µ.
Corollary 3 in Section 2.7 analyzes these effects in greater detail.


2.6       Equilibrium Summary, Entry, and Ownership Dynamics
We summarize the unique continuous, scaled Markov equilibrium in Proposition 4.

Proposition 4 (Existence and uniqueness of equilibrium). There exists a unique continuous,
scaled Markov equilibrium with state variables (K, θ). In this Markov equilibrium:

   1. All payoffs scale with K in that V (K, θ) = Kv(θ), P (K, θ) = Kp(θ), and L(K, θ) =
         Kℓ(θ). The blockholder’s scaled value function satisfies (13), i.e., v(θ) = v̂(θ) and the
         stock price satisfies p(θ) = v̂ ′ (θ).

   2. The blockholder trades smoothly at rate θ̇ given in (17).

   3. There exist thresholds 0 ≤ θ ≤ θ ≤ 1, characterized in Proposition 3, such that θ̇ = 0
         for θ = 0, θ, θ (where θ = θ is possible). The trading rate θ̇ is negative for small
         θ ∈ (0, θ) and large θ ∈ (θ, 1]. The trading rate θ̇ is positive for θ ∈ (θ, θ).

       While we solve for the equilibrium given an initial blockholder stake, we can also endo-
genize entry. Blockholder entry increases firm value. However, if this value creation is fully
reflected in the price at which the blockholder initially acquires their equity stake, due to a
free-rider problem among dispersed shareholders, the blockholder cannot capture the gains
from activism and has no incentive to invest in the first place. In practice, blockholders can
accumulate sizable ownership shares before disclosing them (Collin-Dufresne and Fos, 2016).
We thus assume that the blockholder can acquire a fraction φ ∈ [0, 1] of the firm at the price
P00 that prevails under dispersed ownership.13 The remainder θ0 − φ is bought at a price P0
that reflects the gains from activism. Then, the blockholder pays R(θ0 )K0 dollars to acquire
a stake θ0 , with R(θ0 ) := ηp(0) + max{0, θ0 − φ}p(θ0 ), and enters if and only if

                                                                
                                 E(θ0 ) := max K0 v(θ0 ) − R(θ0 ) ≥ 0.                                  (20)
                                            θ0 ∈[0,1]


The following proposition characterizes the blockholder’s entry decision and initial stake.
  13
    In the U.S., owners of more than 5% of the equity of a public firm are required to file a report with the
SEC, at which point the price adjusts to reflect this information. Collin-Dufresne and Fos (2015) report that
the average blockholder holds 7.51% of the target’s shares when making its first public disclosure.



                                                        20
Proposition 5. The blockholder’s initial stake satisfies θ0 = φ.

   When the blockholder enters, it only acquires the stake φ, which it can buy at a discount.
To gain some intuition, note that—whether at time t = 0 or afterward—the blockholder
optimally trades smoothly, and large lumpy trades are strictly sub-optimal. Choosing θ0 > φ
is equivalent to acquiring first a stake φ in the firm and immediately buying θ0 − φ > 0 units
of the firm equity in a large lumpy trade. However, this is sub-optimal.
   We close this section by characterizing long-run ownership dynamics, which directly
follows from Proposition 3 but, for a better overview, is stated in the following form:

Corollary 2 (Long-run Ownership Dynamics). In the limit t → ∞, we have θ∞ := limt→∞ θt ∈
{0, θ, θ}. When θ0 > θ, then θ∞ = θ. When θ0 = θ, then θ∞ = θ. When θ0 < θ, then θ∞ = 0.

   The model generates reinforcing ownership dynamics that lead to either relatively low or
high blockholder ownership in the long-run. In particular, abstracting from knife-edge cases,
blockholder ownership either approaches the relatively high target level θ or zero. These
long-run ownership dynamics are consistent with evidence from US capital markets, where
Edmans and Holderness (2017) document that blockholder stakes in public firms tend to
cluster at relatively low levels. At the same time, a growing share of large firms are privately
held, featuring highly concentrated ownership by PE funds.
   In this context, we later show in Section 4 how our model can produce public-to-private
transactions and a full takeover, with θ → 1. This occurs when, for instance, the benefits to
debt are large or investment opportunities are sufficiently strong. Finally, note that in our
baseline model, parameters are constant, while the state variables (K, θ) evolve over time.
Because all value functions and prices scale with K, the meaningful dynamics in our model
stem solely from the blockholder’s trading. That is, model dynamics are entirely endogenous,
and given the parameters, one can perfectly predict whether the blockholder increases its
stake towards a stationary point (potentially acquiring the entire firm) or exits as t →
∞. Section 6 extends the model to accommodate stochastic dynamics in the blockholder’s
ownership stake, making the dynamics of corporate policies also stochastic.


2.7    The Determinants of Blockholder Ownership
We now use the long-run dynamics characterized above to study how firm characteristics
shape blockholder ownership. As shown in Proposition 2, there are three possible scenar-
ios concerning blockholder entry and subsequent trading behavior. First, the blockholder

                                              21
chooses not to enter when the costs of exerting effort (κ), holding the stock (π), or deal-
ing with managerial agency conflicts (λ) are too high. Second, the blockholder enters to
capitalize on the lower acquisition price at entry, but eventually exits the firm by gradu-
ally divesting its stake. Third, the blockholder enters the firm and steadily increases its
ownership, potentially acquiring the entire firm over time.
   Corollary 3 determines how firm characteristics—such as managerial agency conflicts λ
or the efficiency of investment µ—or the availability of debt financing—captured by r—affect
blockholder ownership in the long run.

Corollary 3 (Long-run ownership and comparative statics). The following holds:

  1. The blockholder is more likely to buy (and less likely to sell) when µ is larger, or r
     and κ are lower. When θ > 0, then θ decreases in µ, and increases in r and κ. When
     θ > 0, then θ increases in µ, and decreases in r and κ.

  2. Suppose ρ − r = 0. If 4κπ > 1, we have θ∞ = limt→∞ θt = 0. If 4κπ ≤ 1, we have
     θ∞ > 0 whenever λ ∈ [λ− , λ+ ] and θ∞ = 0 otherwise. Thus, the blockholder engages
     with the firm over the long term at intermediate levels of agency conflict λ, but exits
     when λ is too large or too small.

Blockholder Ownership and Debt as Complements. Corollary 3 shows that block-
holder ownership is larger when the net benefits of debt are large (r is low). At the same
time, Lemma 2 and Corollary 1 show that firm debt (book leverage) ℓ(θ) increases with the
blockholder’s stake. In particular, the formation of a blockholder stake should be associated
with increased leverage. Taken together, blockholder ownership and debt levels exhibit a
positive association. That is, they are complements in the firm’s capital structure.

Investment. We also find that, while the level of investment increases with blockholder
ownership, better investment opportunities µ (indirectly) generate gains from trade, leading
to higher blockholder ownership. Similar to the relation between debt and blockholder
ownership, there is a two-way feedback between blockholder ownership and investment.

Managerial Agency Conflicts. In addition, Corollary 3 shows that the trading rate is
generally hump-shaped in the level of agency conflicts λ. When agency conflicts are high or
low, the blockholder has no incentives to increase its stake and exert more effort, as either
the benefits of effort are captured by management (high λ) or the moral hazard problem is
weak (low λ), implying that the effort channel in (17) is quantitatively small. Instead, for

                                             22
                                0.7
                                          λ=0                                                      24
                                0.6       λ = 0.25




         Blockholder stake θt
                                0.5       λ = 0.5                                                  22


                                                                                  Stock price pt
                                0.4
                                                                                                   20
                                0.3
                                0.2                                                                18

                                0.1
                                                                                                   16
                                 0
                                      0      10      20            30   40   50                         0   10   20            30   40   50
                                                          Time t                                                      Time t
                            1.25                                                                   19

                            1.20                                                                   18



      Investment it
                            1.15

                                                                                     Leverage ℓt
                                                                                                   17
                            1.10
                                                                                                   16
                            1.05

                            1.00                                                                   15

                            0.95                                                                   14
                                      0      10      20            30   40   50                         0   10   20            30   40   50
                                                          Time t                                                      Time t


Figure 1: Agency Conflicts and Model Dynamics. We numerically calculate the equi-
librium under varying levels of agency conflicts λ. The parameters are α = κ = 1, ρ+δ = 0.2,
r + δ = 0.1, µ = 0.066, and π = 0.6, as well as θe = 0.99. We set θ0 = 0.3.


intermediate λ, blockholder effort is inefficiently low for any given θ and can be increased
by increasing θ. Overall, the model predicts larger blockholder ownership in firms with
intermediate levels of agency conflicts: blockholders tend to avoid firms that are either
efficiently governed (low agency) or poorly governed with high managerial entrenchment.
    These effects are illustrated in Figure 1. The upper left panel shows that the trading
rate is non-monotonic in λ, with the blockholder’s stake increasing rapidly when λ = 0.25,
more slowly when λ = 0, and declining over time when λ = 0.5. The remaining panels show
how the interaction between agency frictions (λ) and blockholder trading (θ) shapes firm
investment, stock prices, and the debt-to-asset ratio.

Holding Costs. Lastly, as expected, Corollary 3 shows that the blockholder is more likely
to acquire a larger stake in the firm—and thus blockholder ownership tends to be larger—if
it has a lower cost of effort or a lower holding cost.


3     Control Rights over Financing and Investment
In our baseline model, the blockholder acts as a controlling shareholder and determines
corporate policies. This section studies an alternative regime in which policies are chosen to

                                                                              23
maximize dispersed shareholder value. This assumption could capture governance structures
such as anti-takeover or entrenchment provisions (Bebchuk et al., 2009) that limit blockholder
control.
      Our key result is that the blockholder and dispersed shareholders agree on the level of
debt financing (i.e., it does not matter who chooses it), while they do not for investment.
Consequently, investment policies depend on who is in control of corporate policies. Control,
in turn, influences the blockholder’s stake in equilibrium.


3.1       Financing and Managerial Compensation
Note that the blockholder and dispersed shareholders agree on the optimal managerial con-
tract and choose the contract that minimizes agency rents and subject to (3), leading to
βt = λ (as in the baseline). Intuitively, either party’s payoff is maximized for βt = λ, while
raising βt reduces blockholder incentives and the payoff of all shareholders.
      In addition, the blockholder agree on the level of debt financing, which satisfies, as in the
baseline, L = Kℓ(θ) for ℓ(θ) = y(θ). The reason is the following. Conditional on no default
and ignoring the borrowing constraint (5), both the blockholder’s payoff v(θ) and the stock
price p(θ) increase in ℓ. However, even if dispersed shareholders had control over debt policy,
they could not increase leverage beyond y(θ). Indeed, ℓ > y(θ) violates (5) and implies a
negative private valuation for the blockholder that would trigger its immediate exit. This
exit would in turn lead to a downward jump in the stock price (since p′ (θ) > 0), leading to
negative equity value and making it optimal for dispersed shareholders to default, as shown
in Lemma 1. That is, even if given full control, dispersed shareholders cannot raise ℓ above
y(θ) due to the blockholder’s limited commitment to a particular equity stake and to the
threat of immediate exit.


3.2       Investment Control and Blockholder Exit
Similarly, in the baseline model, the blockholder controls investment and chooses the invest-
ment rate i = µy(θ). That is, the blockholder’s valuation for the firm pins down investment.
Given θ and smooth trading, dispersed shareholder value would be maximized under the
investment rate i = µp(θ) > µy(θ).14 In essence, there is an under-investment problem that
reduces dispersed shareholder value.
 14
      Given θ, dispersed shareholders’ value is maximized according to i = arg maxî≥0 (µîp(θ) − î2 /2).


                                                        24
    To address this issue, suppose that the firm sets a governance structure that prevents
the blockholder from gaining control and that dispersed shareholders control investment as
long as θ < 1. Thus, i = µp(θ), which increases investment and the stock price in a given
state, i.e., holding θ fixed. However, the blockholder cannot commit to maintaining a given
ownership stake and given that the change in investment reduces its valuation for the firm,
it lowers its stake in the firm. As we show, this effect ultimately reduces stock prices and
dispersed shareholder value, as well as investment in the long run.
    To establish this result, we again solve for a continuous, scaled Markov equilibrium.15
Appendix B.3 and Proposition 6 demonstrate that a unique continuous, scaled Markov equi-
librium in which the blockholder trades smoothly exists.16 When dispersed shareholders
control investment, the smooth trading rate likewise satisfies (18), which now becomes:
                                                                                  
                 1             ′      θλ(1 − λ)                  ′
          θ̇ = ′      θ(ρ − r)ℓ (θ) +           − πθ − η(θ) + θµi (θ) (y(θ) − p(θ)) ,                   (21)
              p (θ)                       κ

and involves the term
                                                                               
                           ′                                         ∂v(θ) ∂i
                       θµi (θ) (y(θ) − p(θ)) = (ρ + δ − µi)                         < 0.
                                                                      ∂i ∂θ

This term is absent in the baseline model where investment solves the first-order condition
∂v(θ)
 ∂i
      = 0. This term is negative, implying that the blockholder is more likely to sell its shares
over time when dispersed shareholders control investment. This reflects the blockholder’s
lower valuation of the firm, as it internalizes that purchasing additional shares drives up the
firm’s stock price and investment, further worsening inefficiencies from its perspective. In
other words, the blockholder exhibits an increased propensity to acquire more of the firm
rather than to exit when it controls investment. This leads to Proposition 6:

Proposition 6. When dispersed investors control investment and i = µp(θ), a continuous,
scaled Markov equilibrium with smooth trading exists and is unique. In this equilibrium:

   1. The blockholder’s scaled value function v(θ) is strictly convex and solves (B.6) subject
      to (B.9). The stock price satisfies p(θ) = v ′ (θ) with y(θ) = v(θ)
                                                                      θ
                                                                          > p(θ).
  15
     The equilibrium is defined as in the baseline model, except that we impose parameter condition (B.4)
instead of (A.1) and the investment rate is chosen to maximize dispersed shareholder value.
  16
     Admittedly, this uniqueness result is slightly less general than uniqueness among all continuous, scaled
Markov equilibria, which we established for the baseline. Although we cannot prove it, we believe that our
equilibrium is also unique among continuous, scaled Markov equilibria.


                                                     25
  2. The smooth trading rate θ̇ satisfies (18), which becomes (21).

  3. The blockholder’s value function is lower than in the baseline where the blockholder
      controls investment, i.e., v(θ) < v̂(θ).

   We can additionally characterize analytically the effects of investor control on the trading
rate of the blockholder where there are no benefits of debt (ρ = r) and no holding costs or
firm-level moral hazard (π = λ = 0). By continuity, the takeaways also apply as long as
ρ − r > 0, π > 0, and λ > 0 are positive but sufficiently close to zero.

Corollary 4 (Investment control and blockholder exit). Suppose that π = λ = 0 and ρ = r.
Suppose that, given dispersed shareholder control over investment, θ0 satisfies θ0 ∈ (0, θ).
                                                                                         e
Then, the following holds:

  1. When dispersed shareholders control investment, we have θ̇ < 0 and the blockholder
      eventually exits with limt→∞ θt = θ∞ = 0 as well as limt→∞ p(θt ) = v̂ ′ (0).

  2. When the blockholder controls investment, we have dθt = 0 for all t ≥ 0, and θt and
      p(θt ) remain constant at θ0 > 0 and p(θ0 ) = v̂ ′ (θ0 ) > v̂ ′ (0) respectively.

   Our analysis shows that restricting blockholder control has distinct effects in the short
versus long run, as it influences current corporate policies and the blockholder’s trading rate,
which, in turn, affects future ownership levels and firm decisions. Notably, allocating control
to dispersed shareholders increases investment at a given level of blockholder ownership
but reduces both the blockholder’s trading rate and future investment. Thus, as shown in
Corollary 4, whether exit can be part of an optimal strategy when there is no holding cost
(π = 0) uniquely depends on the allocation of control rights. Exit is not optimal when the
blockholder controls investment and financing, but can be part of the optimal strategy when
the blockholder does not control investment.

Numerical Illustration. Figure 2 shows an example of equilibrium dynamics under two
governance structures: blockholder control (dotted blue line) and dispersed shareholder con-
trol (solid red line), both starting from the same initial stake, θ0 . Shifting control rights from
blockholders to dispersed shareholders—i.e., transitioning from the dotted blue to the solid
black line—lowers the blockholder’s valuation of the firm. This, in turn, leads to a gradual
reduction in their ownership stake. The top left panel shows that when blockholders control
investment, they increase their stake over time. Conversely, under dispersed shareholder

                                                  26
                             0.5       Blockholder control




      Blockholder stake θt
                                                                                                   1.18
                                       Investor control


                                                                                   Investment it
                                                                                                   1.16
                             0.4
                                                                                                   1.14
                             0.3                                                                   1.12
                                                                                                    1.1
                             0.2
                                                                                                   1.08
                                   0      10        20            30   40   50                            0   10   20            30   40   50
                                                         Time t                                                         Time t
                             23
                             22                                                                     18



       Stock price pt
                             21


                                                                                  Leverage ℓt
                                                                                                   17.5
                             20
                                                                                                    17
                             19
                                                                                                   16.5
                             18
                             17                                                                     16

                                  0       10        20            30   40   50                            0   10   20            30   40   50
                                                         Time t                                                         Time t


Figure 2: The Dynamic Effects of Control over Corporate Policies. We numerically
calculate the equilibrium dynamics, both under the baseline (solid blue line) and with dis-
persed investor control (solid red line). The parameters are as in Figure 1.


control, blockholders steadily divest. As a result, blockholder control fosters rising levels of
effort, firm value, debt, and investment, whereas all of these metrics decline under dispersed
investor control. Since blockholders contribute positively to firm value, their reduced owner-
ship under dispersed investor control diminishes the firm’s stock price and its debt capacity
(see the bottom panels). Thus, while investor control leads to higher initial investment at a
given ownership level, the blockholder’s divestment causes investment to decline over time.


4     Large Trades and Public-to-Private Transactions
In our baseline model, the blockholder faces dispersed shareholders with varying willingness
to sell their stock. Some shareholders are reluctant to sell beyond a certain threshold, as
indicated by condition (A.1). We now demonstrate that if condition (A.1) is not satisfied,
we can similarly construct a Markov equilibrium in which quantities scale with K, i.e.,
P (K, θ) = Kp(θ) and V (K, θ) = Kv(θ).
    With (A.1) not satisfied, we now characterize an equilibrium that follows the definition
from Section 2.1 but without the requirement that p(θ) is continuous. We focus on the
equilibrium that is closest to the baseline—specifically, the one with the fewest price dis-
continuities. A discontinuity in p(θ) can arise, for instance, when it becomes optimal for
the blockholder to initiate a takeover bid for all remaining shares upon reaching an upper

                                                                                 27
threshold θ∗ from below, even if such a bid is not mandatory. Within the class of equilib-
ria where p(θ) has at most one discontinuity—corresponding to the lumpy trade associated
with a successful takeover—we obtain uniqueness. In this equilibrium, the choice of control
variables (ℓ, i, b) and the smooth trading rate θ̇ are as in the baseline.

Proposition 7 (Equilibrium with takeovers). When (A.1) does not hold, there exists a scaled
Markov equilibrium with state variables (K, θ), so that P (K, θ) = Kp(θ) and V (K, θ) =
Kv(θ). The choice of control variables (ℓ, i, b) is as in the baseline: b(θ) = (1−λ)
                                                                                 κ
                                                                                     , ℓ(θ) = y(θ),
and i(θ) = µy(θ). Further, there exists a threshold θ∗ (defined in (B.24)) such that:

   1. For θ ∈ [0, θ∗ ), the blockholder trades smoothly at rate θ̇ given in (17), where θ̇ > 0
         (θ̇ < 0) for θ > θ (θ < θ) and θ = Θ. Further, we have v(θ) = v̂(θ) and p(θ) = v̂ ′ (θ).

   2. For θ ∈ (θ∗ , 1), the blockholder conducts an immediate lumpy trade toward one (acquires
         the entire firm) and thereafter stops trading. Its value function is v(θ) = v̂(1) − (1 −
         θ)p̂(1) where p̂(1) is the stock prevailing when the blockholder maintains perpetually full
         ownership of the firm. The stock price satisfies p(θ) = p̂(1) where p̂(1) < v̂ ′ (1).

   3. Suppose that θ reaches θ∗ from below, i.e., limθ→θ∗ θ̇(θ) > 0. Then, once θ = θ∗ , the
         blockholder randomizes between not trading at all or buying the entire firm at once at
         an endogenous rate γ ∗ > 0, given in (B.25). When limθ→θ∗ θ̇(θ) ≤ 0, the blockholder
         trades smoothly at θ = θ∗ at rate θ̇ from (17). The blockholder’s value function satisfies
         v̂(θ∗ ) = v̂(1) − (1 − θ∗ )p̂(1), which pins down the threshold θ∗ .

       Proposition 7 reveals a novel trading pattern that is similar to the baseline but now
features both small and large trades, and potentially full ownership by the blockholder. In
particular, the blockholder may gradually increase its stake up to an upper threshold θ∗ , at
which point it randomizes between acquiring the entire firm at once and not trading.17 When
θ0 ≥ θ∗ , the blockholder acquires the entire firm immediately and never trades smoothly.
       Proposition 7 shows that all policy choices remain as in the baseline model. Consequently,
the blockholder’s accumulation of a large stake should coincide with an immediate increase in
both financial leverage and the investment rate, accompanied by a one-time payout to share-
holders following the issuance of new debt. In particular, when the blockholder acquires the
  17
     The discontinuity at θ = θ∗ , when the blockholder shifts from smooth trading to an immediate acqui-
sition, mirrors real-world takeover tactics, for instance, Elon Musk’s acquisition of X (formerly Twitter) or
Michael Dell’s buyout of Dell Technologies. In both cases, the acquisitions were not abrupt. Instead, there
was a clear threshold beyond which the acquirers decided to go all-in. Before reaching that critical point,
they gradually increased their ownership stakes, preparing the market for a possible full buyout.


                                                     28
entire firm at once while issuing debt that is distributed as a dividend, the transaction closely
resembles a leveraged buyout—where a public firm is taken private through full acquisition
by the blockholder, resulting in a public-to-private transaction.

Public-to-private Transactions and Leveraged Buyouts. As in the baseline, the block-
holder is more likely to buy—and in this case to take full ownership of the firm—when in-
vestment opportunities are good (µ is large), or the net benefits of debt are large (r is low).
Thus, the model predicts a larger occurrence of public-to-private transactions, whereby pub-
lic firms are acquired through an LBO, when firms have better investment opportunities or
when debt financing is relatively cheap (e.g., the interest rate in the economy is low). Like-
wise, we have shown that the blockholder is more likely to acquire firms with intermediate
levels of λ, suggesting that public-to-private transactions are less likely to occur for firms
with either very low managerial agency conflicts (e.g., due to efficient governance) or very
high managerial agency conflicts (e.g., due to poor governance).


5     Large Shocks, Default, and Risky Debt
The specification of cash flows in equation (1) implies that the firm never defaults on its debt
when (5) is satisfied, which is always the case in equilibrium. We now extend the model to
incorporate large, persistent shocks to the capital shock K as in, e.g., Bolton et al. (2023).
Since cash flows scale with K, these shocks can also be interpreted as persistent shocks to
cash flows. In particular, we assume that a fraction 1 − S of the capital stock is destroyed at
a Poisson rate Λ ≥ 0 where, for simplicity, S is uniformly distributed on [0, 1]. In the event
of default following the shock, the firm is liquidated.
    We now assume that, in liquidation, creditors recover the liquidation value RSK. Here,
R ≥ 0 is sufficiently small that the liquidation value does not fully repay creditors in default
under equilibrium debt levels (and equity value falls to zero). In particular, R < p0 where p0
is the scaled stock price under dispersed ownership from Proposition 1. The capital shock is
not influenced by the manager and is not contractible. As in the baseline, the blockholder
chooses debt and investment, and the contract of the manager features a base wage of zero
and an exposure βt = λ to cash flow shocks.
    The solution to the model under this cash flow specification is presented in Appendix
B.5. In the following, we provide a heuristic characterization of the continuous, scaled
Markov equilibrium. We start by clarifying the timing of events and actions within a time


                                               29
interval [t, t + dt], with pre-shock capital K = Kt− = lims↑t Kt and where use the left-limit
notation to emphasize that Kt− is the capital stock before realization of the jump shock.
First, given θ, the blockholder chooses the managerial contract, the investment rate, and
the amount of debt. Second, the blockholder chooses its effort level, the shock dNt realizes
and, observing dNt , the manager chooses diversion mt . Then, cash flows dXt realize, and
the manager receives its promised payments. Then, uncertainty regarding the capital shock
unfolds: The capital stock remains at K if no shock realizes and drops to SK if a shock
realizes. Third, shareholders repay debt or default. In the absence of default, cash flows
net of managerial compensation, investment costs, and debt repayments are distributed as
dividends to shareholders. As in the baseline model, the blockholder can trade before or
after debt is repaid. Finally, the capital stock adjusts for investment and depreciation in the
case of no default.
   A negative shock to capital reduces the blockholder’s payoff. If the blockholder’s post-
shock payoff, given by K(Sv(θ) − θℓ), becomes negative, the firm defaults. Default occurs
either because the blockholder directly triggers it or because it sells its entire stake (at
a positive price), lowering the equity value below the debt level and prompting dispersed
shareholders to default. Due to y(θ) < p(θ), it suffices to look at the blockholder’s incentives
to default, which are stronger than those of dispersed shareholders. As in the baseline, the
blockholder’s valuation of the firm y = y(θ) pins down default, regardless of who ultimately
controls the decision. We can rewrite the default condition as

                                                            ℓ(θ)  ℓ
                          Sy(θ) < ℓ = ℓ(θ)     ⇐⇒     S<         = .
                                                            y(θ)  y

Conditional on a shock occurring, the probability of default is given by ∆ := yℓ . In default,
creditors recover in expectation 2yℓ RK dollars or 2y
                                                   R
                                                      dollars per unit of debt. The fair interest
rate on risky debt is thus                             
                                                     R
                                r̂ := r + Λ∆ 1 −          ,                           (22)
                                                     2y
                                        
                                       R
with a credit spread r̂ − r = Λ∆ 1 − 2y    . The following proposition, proven in Appendix
B.5, characterizes equilibrium outcomes.

Proposition 8. In a continuous, scaled Markov equilibrium, the blockholder’s valuation of
the firm y(θ) increases in θ and satisfies y(θ) < p(θ). Furthermore:



                                               30
  1. The trading rate satisfies
                                                                        
                              1             ′       θλ(1 − λ)
                       θ̇ = ′      θ(ρ − r)y (θ)∆ +           − πθ − η(θ) .
                           p (θ)                        κ

  2. Scaled debt ℓ = ℓ(θ) and the probability of default Λ∆ satisfy
                           (                      )
                                              2
                                                                                   
                                (ρ − r)y(θ)                             (ρ − r)y(θ)
           ℓ = ℓ(θ) = min y(θ),                      and   Λ∆ = min Λ,               .
                                Λ y(θ) − R                               y(θ) − R


  3. The default probability and credit spreads decrease in θ. Scaled debt ℓ increases in θ
                                                                       0
      when y(θ)
             2
                ≥ R and decreases in θ when y(θ) < R. When R ≤ p2 , y(θ) ≥ R for all θ ≥ θ
                                       0 2                          2
                                        p
      and ℓ increases in θ. When R ∈ 2 , p0 , ℓ decreases in a right-neighborhood of θ.

   We note that the baseline model and results are obtained when the arrival intensity of
capital shocks tends to zero, i.e., Λ → 0. Under these circumstances, we have ℓ → y(θ),
∆ → 1 for any θ, while the default intensity Λ∆ vanishes, rendering debt risk-free.
   In this model with large shocks, the choice of debt reflects a standard trade-off, whereby
firm leverage balances the benefits of debt with the cost of default. One can interpret RK as
the firm’s tangible or collateralizable assets, which can be seized by creditors in default. All
else equal, higher R increases creditors’ recovery in default and therefore lowers the interest
rate, making it attractive to issue more debt and raising scaled debt ℓ and default risk.
   Blockholder engagement—that is, the value that the blockholder adds to the firm—is an
intangible, non-pledgeable asset, whose value increases with θ. As the blockholder’s stake
in the firm increases, the blockholder adds greater value through engagement, which raises
the firm’s going-concern value and incentives to avoid default. Therefore, an increase in
ownership concentration has two effects. First, holding the level of debt fixed, a higher θ
reduces default risk and credit spreads. Second, unless R is large, the firm takes advantage of
the lower spreads and raises more debt as θ increases, thereby increasing credit risk. When
R is large, debt is high to begin with, and the firm finds it attractive to mitigate default
risk by lowering debt as θ increases and default becomes more costly. Overall, the first effect
dominates the second one, in that credit spreads and default risk decrease with θ. Book debt
increases in θ, unless R is large; for larger R, book debt is U-shaped in θ.
   As in the baseline model, the trading rate θ̇ reflects the gains from trade associated with
debt issuance, increasing the blockholder’s propensity to acquire a larger stake in the firm.


                                              31
First, when ∆ = 1 and debt choice is constrained by the borrowing constraint (5) in that
ℓ = y(θ), then ∂v(θ)
                ∂ℓ
                     > 0 and ∂∆
                             ∂θ
                                = 0. As in the baseline, the gains from trade term associated
with debt is proportional to ∂v(θ)
                              ∂ℓ ∂θ
                                   ∂ℓ
                                      > 0. Specifically, the blockholder internalizes that by
buying additional shares, it increases the firm’s debt capacity, which increases firm value.
    Second, when ∆ < 1, the debt choice is not constrained by the borrowing constraint
ℓ ≤ y(θ) but solves the first-order condition ∂v(θ)
                                               ∂ℓ
                                                    = 0. In this case, the blockholder, acting as
a large strategic trader, internalizes that buying additional shares reduces credit risk and the
cost of default. This channel generates gains from trade, as dispersed investors do not account
                                                                                        
for this when valuing the firm’s stock, given by θ(ρ−r)y ′ (θ)∆ = (ρ+δ+Λ−µi) ∂v(θ)    ∂∆
                                                                                   ∂∆ ∂θ
                                                                                           > 0.
    Finally, note that in a given state θ, the blockholder chooses too high leverage relative
to dispersed investors’ preferences. The intuition is that, upon default, the blockholder loses
y(θ) per unit of equity, while dispersed shareholders lose p(θ) > y(θ). Thus, the blockholder
associates a lower cost with default than do dispersed shareholders. Appendix B.5.6 shows
how the allocation of control rights affects blockholder trading in this model variant.


6     Stochastic Trading and Liquidity Shocks
In the benchmark model, we abstract from elements that would introduce exogenous trading
dynamics and are not key to our main findings. As a result, given the parameters, one can
predict whether the blockholder will maintain its stake, acquire the entire firm, or exit as
t → ∞. Our framework can be extended by allowing model parameters to evolve over time,
leading to stochastic trading and long-run ownership. For instance, preference parameters
π, ρ, r, or technological parameters such as µ, κ, could follow a Markov-switching process,
introducing exogenous randomness into the blockholder’s equilibrium trading behavior that
would complement the endogenous dynamics highlighted in the baseline framework.
    To illustrate this in the simplest possible setting, suppose the holding cost π is initially
zero but can jump to π + = π at a Poisson arrival time with intensity ϕ. Both before and
after the jump, condition (A.1) holds, so that we obtain an equilibrium with smooth trading.
    We sketch the equilibrium in this setting. The equilibrium after the jump is similar
to that described in Proposition 4, with blockholder value function v(θ) = v̂(θ), stock price
p(θ) = v̂ ′ (θ), and smooth trading given in (17). Prior to the jump, we denote the blockholder




                                               32
value function by vP re (θ) and the stock price by pP re (θ). For θ ∈ [0, 1], vP re (θ) solves:

                                                    i2     κb2
                                                                                 
    (ρ + δ + ϕ)vP re (θ) = max θ α + b + (ρ − r)ℓ −      −     + µivP re (θ) + ϕv(θ) ,               (23)
                            ℓ,i                     2       2

where ϕ(v(θ) − vP re (θ)) captures the effects of a jump and b satisfies (11).
    It is clear that for yP re (θ) = vP reθ (θ) , we obtain ℓP re (θ) = yP re (θ), iP re (θ) = µyP re (θ),
and bP re (θ) = b(θ). Also, we have that vP re (θ) > v(θ) as an upward jump in π reduces the
blockholder’s valuation of the firm. Next, note that pP re (θ) = vP′ re (θ) and v ′ (θ) = p(θ). We
then can solve for the trading rate as
                                                                                     
                                     1                                 θλ(1 − λ)
                      θ̇P re =                    θ(ρ − r)ℓ′P re (θ) +           − η(θ)   .          (24)
                                 p′P re (θ)                              κ

    Note that η(θ) = 0 and θ̇P re > 0 for θ < θ.e Thus, the pre-shock upper stationary point
θP re is larger than θ,                        e Thus, given θ0 ∈ (0, θ),
                     e while θ is smaller than θ.                     e two cases can happen

    1. First, θ < θ0 < θP re . Then, the blockholder trades up to θP re , at which point it stops
       trading. Once the shock hits, it will trade toward the target ownership level θ. Either
       way, we have θ∞ = θ.

    2. Second, θ0 ≤ θ < θP re . Again, the blockholder gradually trades up to θP re . If the
       liquidity shock hits early before θ surpasses θ, the blockholder will exit and θ∞ = 0. If,
       on the other hand, the liquidity shock hits late only after θ > θ, the blockholder will
       remain invested in this firm and trade to θ. Thus, the long-run outcome is stochastic.

    Overall, early realizations of negative liquidity shocks can lead to exit. In contrast,
late realizations are less impactful and often do not prevent long-run acquisition by the
blockholder. This highlights the critical role of timing in liquidity shocks, shaping both the
short- and long-run evolution of blockholder ownership.


7      Conclusion and Implications
We examine how blockholders affect firm dynamics by developing a tractable dynamic model
in which blockholder ownership and firm policies are jointly determined. In the model, a
blockholder can exert costly effort to enhance firm productivity, contract with management



                                                           33
to curb agency problems, and influence investment and financing choices. We derive a closed-
form equilibrium that characterizes the blockholder’s dynamic trading strategy, entry and
exit decisions, and the firm’s compensation, financing, and investment policies—all without
assuming commitment by the blockholder. We then use the model to analyze the joint
evolution of firm outcomes and ownership structure, and to assess how the allocation of
control rights shapes dispersed shareholder value and firm growth.
   The trading strategy of the blockholder exhibits features commonly observed in practice.
Notably, after acquiring an endogenous toehold, the blockholder may follow one of several
paths depending on firm characteristics: fully exit the firm, gradually converge to a stable
target ownership level, initiate a takeover bid, or exhibit a bifurcation pattern where small
initial stakes lead to exit while sufficiently large stakes result in continued engagement.
   The ownership stake of the blockholder, which is endogenous and evolves dynamically,
shapes blockholder engagement and firm policies. Our model shows that blockholder entry
leads to an increase in firm value, book leverage, and long-run investment. In addition, both
the rate of investment and leverage are predicted to increase with the stake of the blockholder.
However, both policies are suboptimal from the perspective of dispersed investors in any given
state, with investment rates that are too low and debt levels that are too high relative to
levels that would maximize dispersed shareholder value.
   While firm policies do not maximize dispersed shareholder value when the blockholder is
in control, our analysis shows that granting dispersed shareholders control paradoxically re-
duces their value. This outcome arises due to the impact on the blockholder’s trading behav-
ior and engagement, and the blockholder’s inability to commit to a specific stake. Notably,
a key aspect of our model is the endogenous and dynamic nature of the blockholder’s stake,
which leads to divergent effects on shareholder welfare in static versus dynamic settings.
Specifically, dispersed shareholder control boosts investment at a given level of blockholder
ownership but diminishes the blockholder’s trading activity and future investment potential.
Moreover, in our model, exit is not optimal when the blockholder controls corporate policy
but becomes optimal when they lack control.
   Our results underscore the importance of the blockholder’s dynamic and endogenous stake
in shaping the implications of corporate control and highlight the need to consider how shifts
in control affect not only current firm decisions but also the blockholder’s ongoing and future
engagement with the firm. They also demonstrate the two-way relationship between firm
policies and ownership concentration, highlighting the need to account for feedback effects:


                                              34
firm policies influence the incentives for large shareholders to engage or exit, while changes
in ownership structure, in turn, reshape firm behavior and strategic choices.


References
Abel, A. B. (2018). Optimal debt and profitability in the trade-off theory. The Journal of
 Finance 73 (1), 95–143.
Admati, A. and P. Pfleiderer (2009). The “Wall Street walk” and shareholder activism: Exit
 as a form of voice. The Review of Financial Studies 22, 2395–2428.
Admati, A. R., P. Pfleiderer, and J. Zechner (1994). Large shareholder activism, risk sharing,
 and financial market equilibrium. The Journal of Political Economy 102 (6), 1097–1130.
Back, K., P. Collin-Dufresne, V. Fos, T. Li, and A. Ljungqvist (2018). Activism, strategic
  trading, and liquidity. Econometrica 86 (4), 1431–1463.
Bebchuk, L., A. Cohen, and A. Ferrell (2009). What matters in corporate governance? The
  Review of financial studies 22 (2), 783–827.
Bolton, P., N. Wang, and J. Yang (2023). Leverage dynamics and financial flexibility. NBER
  Working Paper 26802.
Collin-Dufresne, P. and V. Fos (2015). Do prices reveal the presence of informed trading?
  The Journal of Finance 70 (4), 1555–1582.
Collin-Dufresne, P. and V. Fos (2016). Insider trading, stochastic liquidity, and equilibrium
  prices. Econometrica 84 (4), 1441–1475.
Daley, B. and B. Green (2020). Bargaining and news. American Economic Review 110 (2),
 428–474.
Dasgupta, A. and G. Piacentino (2015). The wall street walk when blockholders compete
 for flows. The Journal of Finance 70 (6), 2853–2896.
DeAngelo, H., L. DeAngelo, and T. M. Whited (2011, February). Capital structure dynamics
  and transitory debt. The Journal of Financial Economics 99 (2), 235–261.
DeMarzo, P. M. and Z. He (2021). Leverage dynamics without commitment. The Journal
  of Finance 76 (3), 1195–1250.
DeMarzo, P. M., Z. He, and F. Tourre (2023). Sovereign debt ratchets and welfare destruc-
  tion. The Journal of Political Economy 131, 2825–2892.
DeMarzo, P. M. and B. Urošević (2006). Ownership dynamics and asset pricing with a large
  shareholder. The Journal of Political Economy 114 (4), 774–815.
Du, S. and H. Zhu (2017). What is the optimal trading frequency in financial markets? The
 Review of Economic Studies 84, 1606–1651.

                                             35
Duffie, D. and H. Zhu (2017). Size discovery. Review of Financial Studies 30 (4), 1095–1150.

Edmans, A. and C. G. Holderness (2017). Blockholders: A survey of theory and evidence.
  The Handbook of the Economics of Corporate Governance 1, 541–636.

Edmans, A. and G. Manso (2011). Governance through trading and intervention: A theory
  of multiple blockholders. The Review of Financial Studies 24 (7), 2395–2428.

Geelen, T., J. Hajda, E. Morellec, and A. Winegar (2024). Asset life, leverage, and debt
 maturity matching. The Journal of Financial Economics 154, 103796.

Haddad, V., P. Huebner, and E. Loualiche (2025). How competitive is the stock market? the-
  ory, evidence from portfolios, and implications for the rise of passive investing. American
  Economic Review 115 (3), 975–1018.

Hartman-Glaser, B., S. Mayer, and K. Milbradt (2025). A theory of cash flow-based financing
  with distress resolution. Review of Economic Studies, rdaf009.

He, Z. and A. Krishnamurthy (2011). A model of capital and crises. The Review of Economic
  Studies 79 (2), 735–777.

Hu, Y. and F. Varas (2025). Intermediary financing without commitment. The Journal of
 Financial Economics forthcoming.

Hu, Y., F. Varas, and C. Ying (2025). Debt maturity management. Working paper, Duke
 University.

Khanna, N. and R. Mathews (2012). Doing battle with short sellers: The conflicted role of
 blockholders in bear raids. The Journal of Financial Economics 106, 229–246.

Koijen, R., R. Richmond, and M. Yogo (2024). Which investors matter for equity valuations
 and expected returns? The Review of Economic Studies 91, 2387–2424.

Koijen, R. and M. Yogo (2019). A demand system approach to asset pricing. The Journal
 of Political Economy 127 (4), 1475–1992.

Levit, D. (2019). Soft shareholder activism. Review of Financial Studies 32 (7), 2775–2808.

Marinovic, I. and F. Varas (2025). Strategic trading and blockholder dynamics. The Rand
 Journal of Economics forthcoming.

Maug, E. (1998). Large shareholders as monitors: Is there a trade-off between liquidity and
 control? The Journal of Finance 53 (1), 65–98.




                                             36
A     Proofs for Main Model
In this Appendix, we assume that dispersed investors derive a holding benefit from holding
the stock at θ = 1 that is large enough that

                                (ρ − r) (1 − λ2 − κπ)            λ(1 − λ)
  η(1) = π I (1 − θ)
                  e > p                                        +          − π. (A.1)
                                   2     2      2          2
                     2 κ (κ (r + δ) − µ (1 − λ − κπ) − 2κ µ α)      κ

As we show in Appendix A.7, this condition implies that the optimal trading rate of the
blockholder is negative at θ = 1 and ensures the existence of a unique continuous Markov
equilibrium in which the blockholder trades smoothly according to dθ = θ̇dt.

A.1     Heuristic Timing
We characterize the heuristic timing of the model within a time interval [t, t + dt].
  1. At the beginning of [t, t + dt] and after previous-period debt has been repaid and
     previous-period trading, the blockholder’s stake equals θ = θt (i.e., θ is a predictable
     process). Given θ, shareholders choose the managerial contract (specifically, βt ≥ λ),
     the investment rate it ≥ 0, and the amount of short-term debt Lt , where the proceeds
     from debt issuance are distributed as dividends.
  2. The blockholder chooses its effort level, the shock dNt realizes and, observing dNt , the
     manager chooses diversion mt . Then, the blockholder chooses its effort level, the shock
     dNt realizes and, observing dNt , the manager chooses diversion mt .
  3. At the end of [t, t + dt], debt matures: The firm either repays creditors (1 + rt dt)Lt
     dollars, where rt is the endogenous interest rate, or defaults. If the firm does not default,
     cash flows net of investment costs, managerial compensation, and debt repayments are
     distributed as dividends to shareholders.
  4. The blockholder can trade and chooses dθt , determining next-period
                                                                              stake θt+dt =
     θt + dθt . Finally, the capital stock is updated with Kt+dt = Kt 1 + (µit − δ)dt .
Note that one can net out the “special” dividends from debt issuance with the debt re-
payment. Moreover, the change in the capital stock is of order dt and its effect on other
quantities of order dt is therefore negligible. Hence, the exact timing of capital stock updates
does not matter for trading, default, or contracting. To avoid tedious notation, we assume
it occurs at the very end of the period.
    Thus, the timing can be concisely summarized as follows. First, corporate policies and
efforts over [t, t + dt] are chosen, taking the ownership state θt = θ and capital stock Kt = K
as given. Second, the blockholder trades at the end of the period, and the capital stock
adjusts, determining the next-period stake θt+dt and the capital stock Kt+dt .
    In our continuous-time model, periods are infinitesimal and, therefore, the exact timing—
while useful in guiding intuition—does not matter. In particular, in the heuristic timing,
the blockholder trades after debt is repaid. However, as we demonstrate in Section 2.3, this
assumption is without loss in generality in that we could allow trading before and after the
repayment of debt without changing the results.

                                         Appendix - 1
A.2     Optimal Contracting and Effort (Proof of Proposition 2)
We follow the formulation of the short-term contracting problem in He and Krishnamurthy
(2011). We focus on incentive-compatible contracts that implement mt = 0.
    To formalize the contracting problem, denote the anticipated blockholder effort by b̂t .
In optimum, we have b̂t = bt , i.e., anticipated and actual effort levels coincide. When the
blockholder does not invest, then θt = 0 and bt = b̂t = 0. The short-term contract    Ct = (βt , ct )
stipulates a flow (base) wage ct , in addition to a payout βt Kt dXt −(α+ b̂t )dt which depends
on the realization of dXt relative to its expected mean (α + b̂t )dt. Without loss of generality,
we normalize the manager’s reservation utility to zero, so that its expected payoff from the
contract must be positive. We denote the total payment to the manager over [t, t+dt],    which
is contingent on the realization of dXt , by Kt dCt = Kt ct dt + βt dXt − (α + b̂t )dt .
    Consider a cash flow shock dNt = 1. If the manager diverts the generated cash flow
and sets mt = 1, she derives private benefit λKt . Otherwise, if she does not divert cash
flow, the manager gets βt Kt . Thus, the manager does not divert cash flow if and only
if: βt ≥ λ which is (3). As will become clear, both the stock price and the blockholder
payoff decrease in βt , so setting βt = λ is optimal and the incentive condition (3) is tight.
                                                                                                   m
The manager’s participation constraint requires Kt Em   t [dCt ] to be weakly positive, where Et
denotes the time-t expectation under the manager’s information set, i.e., conditional on mt
and an anticipated level of blockholder effort b̂t (which coincides in optimum with actual
effort bt ). In optimum, shareholders design the optimal contract, which maximizes their own
value, and the manager’s participation constraint binds. Setting Em      t [dCt ] to zero, leads to
ct = 0.
Optimal Effort. When choosing effort b, the blockholder takes the manager’s contract (β, c)
as given. Indeed, since b is not observable or contractible, the contract with the manager
cannot condition on b. The blockholder’s scaled expected flow payoff related to effort and
contracting with management can be written as
           
                             κb2
                                                                    κb2 
              b
     max θE [dX − dC] −          dt = θαdt + max       θb − θ(b − b̂)β −       dt,   (A.2)
     β≥λ,b                    2               β≥λ,b                       2

where the expectation Eb is under the blockholder’s information set, which includes the
choice of b. Optimizing over b yields b = θ(1−β)
                                             κ
                                                 . Inserting optimal b into (A.2) and imposing
b̂ = b shows that the blockholder’s flow payoff decreases in β. As such, it is optimal to set
β = λ. Likewise, setting higher managerial incentives over [t, t + dt] reduces b and therefore
harms dispersed shareholders. As neither the blockholder nor dispersed shareholders benefit
from increasing managerial incentives above λ, it holds that β = λ and b = θ(1−λ) κ
                                                                                     .

A.3     Proof of Proposition 1
When the blockholder does not invest and θ = 0, dispersed shareholders dynamically choose
the managerial contract, debt issuance, and investment to maximize (with η(0) = 0):
                             Z ∞
                                                 Kt i2t
                                                                                 
       0                           −ρt
     P0 =      max Et             e     Kt dXt −        dt − Kt dCt + (ρ − r)Lt dt , (A.3)
           (dLt ,it ,Ct )t≥0   0                  2

                                           Appendix - 2
subject to Lt ≤ Pt0 where Pt0 is the stock price with dispersed shareholders owning the firm.
Conjecture that Pt = Kp0 and Lt = ℓ0 K for Kt = K, the firm’s stock of capital. The HJB
equation then becomes (using Et [dCt ] = 0):
                                          n               i2           o
                           ρp0 = max       α + (ρ − r)ℓ0 − + (µi − δ)p0 .
                                 0 0
                                  ℓ ≤p ,i                 2

Optiming over ℓ0 yields ℓ0 = p0 . Optimizing over i yields i = µp0 . Inserting these into the
                                              2 0 2
above HJB equation, we get (r + δ)p0 = α + µ (p2 ) which we solve for p0 .

A.4      Proof of Lemma 1
We focus on a Markov equilibrium in which all quantities scale with K. To analyze trading,
we thus consider scaled payoffs, using that V (K, θ) = Kv(θ), P (K, θ), and L(K, θ) = Kℓ(θ).
To analyze trading and default, we consider the firm in a state (Kt , θt ) = (K, θ) that is
attained in equilibrium after time 0, i.e., we abstract from states that are never reached.18
Claim 1. The “if part” is immediate. Indeed, if (5) holds, both the dispersed shareholders
and the blockholder are better off not defaulting.
    It remains to prove the “only if” part for θ > 0. We consider the firm at time t > 0 in
state (Kt , θt− ) = (K, θ), which, by assumption, is attainable. Attainability of (K, θ) requires
that there are no profitable deviations in state (K, θ), in that there does not exist a trade
toward any other state (K, θ̂) that yields strictly higher payoff for the blockholder. That
is, any trade toward another state (K, θ̂) must yield weakly lower payoff for the blockholder
than state (K, θ). Otherwise, the blockholder would immediately exit that state, i.e., the
state would not be attained.
    Suppose to the contrary that there exists a stake θ̂ for which the firm does not default and
for which v(θ) < v(θ̂) − (θ̂ − θ)p(θ̂) holds. If this were the case, the blockholder would realize
a strictly positive payoff by trading toward state θ̂ just before time t, at time t− = lims↑t s.
As such, state (K, θ) is not attainable. Thus, v(θ) ≥ v(θ̂) − (θ̂ − θ)p(θ̂) for all θ̂ ∈ [0, 1].
    Consider now ℓ = ℓ(θ) > v(θ)  θ
                                     . Suppose the firm does not default after the blockholder
trades toward stake θ̂ just before debt repayment. As default would be optimal post-trade
for both types of shareholders when ℓ > p(θ̂) ≥ v(θ̂θ̂) , it suffices to consider p(θ̂) ≥ ℓ. Then,
the gains from trading toward state θ̂ just before debt repayment read

  G− (θ, θ̂) := v(θ̂) − θ̂ℓ − v(θ) − θℓ − (θ̂ − θ)(p(θ̂) − ℓ) = v(θ̂) − v(θ) − (θ̂ − θ)p(θ̂) ≤ 0 (A.4)
                                     


for all θ̂ ∈ [0, 1] that do not lead to default. The last inequality used that by attainability
of state (K, θ), we have v(θ) ≥ v(θ̂) − (θ̂ − θ)p(θ̂) for all θ̂ ∈ [0, 1], as shown above. Thus,
conditional on no default occurring, the blockholder’s continuation payoff is (weakly) smaller
than v(θ) − θℓ < 0 and therefore strictly negative.
  18
    As discussed below, attainability of a state (K, θ) in equilibrium implies that there exists no large trade
toward another state (K, θ̂) that leads to strictly higher equilibrium payoffs. If such a trade toward θ̂ would
yield strictly higher payoff, the blockholder would never remain in state (K, θ) and just immediately trade
toward (K, θ̂), rendering (K, θ) unattainable.


                                               Appendix - 3
    However, the blockholder can do strictly better than that by selling its entire stake at
any positive price, which yields a weakly positive payoff for the blockholder; indeed, due to
the option to default, the firm’s stock price must be weakly positive at any time. Note that
selling the entire stake yields a weakly higher payoff than forcing immediate default, which
is possible if the blockholder is in control of the default decision and yields a payoff of zero.
Consequently, it suffices to prove the claim assuming that dispersed shareholders decide on
default and default at time t whenever pt < ℓt .
    When the blockholder sells its entire stake θ, it trades toward (post-trade) stake (K, θ̂)
with θ̂ = 0. Due to p(0) ≤ v(θ)
                              θ
                                 < ℓ, the firm optimally defaults post-trade for θ̂ = 0.
    By the above arguments, any other trade toward θ̂ that does not trigger default yields
gains from trade G− (θ, θ̂) ≤ 0 and therefore strictly negative post-trade payoff for the block-
holder. In contrast, selling the entire stake triggers default and yields zero payoff. Thus,
when v(θ) < θℓ, the blockholder’s optimal trading necessarily triggers default. Since the
stock price in default is zero, the blockholder cannot do better than selling its entire stake
once v(θ) < θℓ.
Claim 2. With (5) being met before and after trading, there is no default. Just before debt
is repaid and given a debt level ℓ, the blockholder’s gain from trading toward state θ̂ reads

   G− (θ, θ̂) := (v(θ̂) − θ̂ℓ) − (v(θ) − θℓ) − (θ̂ − θ)(p(θ̂) − ℓ) = v(θ̂) − v(θ) − (θ̂ − θ)p(θ̂).

Thus, gains from trade just before debt is repaid are equal to gains from trade just after
debt is repaid,
                          G(θ, θ̂) := v(θ̂) − v(θ) − (θ̂ − θ)p(θ̂).
Taking the limit θ̂ → θ (from either side) implies that this argument also applies to infinites-
imal trades. Since gains from trade do not depend on the timing of the trade (conditional
on no default), the next period stake satisfies θt+dt = arg maxθ̂ G− (θ, θ̂) = arg maxθ̂ G(θ, θ̂).
   This proves that when (5) holds, the gains from trade are the same, irrespective of
whether the blockholder trades just before or after debt is repaid (or at both times). Hence,
the exact timing of the blockholder’s trading is immaterial.

A.5     Proof of Lemma 2
For a Markov equilibrium with states (K, θ), we conjecture and verify that V (K, θ) = Kv(θ),
P (K, θ) = Kp(θ), and L(K, θ) = Kℓ(θ). Given these conjectures, we can rewrite the bor-
rowing constraints from (5) as ℓ = ℓ(θ) ≤ min{ v(θ)
                                                 θ
                                                    , p(θ)}. Moreover, the partial derivatives
of the value function then read VK (K, θ) = v(θ) and Vθ (K, θ) = Kv ′ (θ).
    By the dynamic programming principle, the integral representation (6) implies that the
blockholder’s value function solves (under smooth trading) the HJB equation:

                                                           i2     κb2 πθ2
                                                                        
             ρV (K, θ) = max K θ α + b + (ρ − r)ℓ −             −     −
                         ℓ,θ̇,i                            2       2      2
                                                                                 
                                                                              
                                 + VK (K, θ)K(µi − δ) + θ̇ Vθ (K, θ) − P (K, θ) ,



                                           Appendix - 4
subject to (11) and the borrowing constraint, where we used that, in equilibrium, expected
payouts to the manager are zero, i.e., E[dC] = λE[dX − (α + b)dt] = λσE[dZ] = 0. Us-
ing V (K, θ) = Kv(θ), P (K, θ) = Kp(θ), VK (K, θ) = v(θ), and Vθ (K, θ) = Kv ′ (θ) and
rearranging and canceling K > 0 on both sides, we obtain

                                              i2     κb2 πθ2
                                                                                       
                                                                              ′
   (ρ + δ)v(θ) = max θ α + b + (ρ − r)ℓ −          −    −      + µiv(θ) + θ̇[v (θ) − p(θ)] ,
                  ℓ,θ̇,i                      2       2     2
                                                                                         (A.5)
which is (13). This verifies that V (K, θ) = Kv(θ). Since the right-hand side of (13) and the
borrowing constraint do not depend on K, it follows that (scaled) control variables do not
depend on K either and are functions of θ only. We thus obtain L = ℓ(θ)K in optimum.
    Next, note that by (7), a dispersed shareholder’s valuation for the firm’s stock, i.e., the
firm’s stock price, satisfies:

                               i2                  
      ρP (K, θ) = K α + b −       + (ρ − r)ℓ + η(θ) + PK (K, θ)K(µi − δ) + Pθ (K, θ)θ̇,
                               2
where we used that in optimum E[dC] = 0. Using P (K, θ) = Kp(θ), Pθ (K, θ) = Kp′ (θ), and
PK (K, θ) = p(θ), we obtain after simplifications

                                                            i2
                 (ρ + δ − µi)p(θ) = α + b + (ρ − r)ℓ(θ) −      + η(θ) + p′ (θ)θ̇,
                                                            2
which is (16), which verifies our conjecture P (K, θ) = Kp(θ).
    To derive closed-form expressions for v(θ) and p(θ), first conjecture that p(θ) ≥ v(θ)    θ
                                                                                                ,
which we verify at the end of the proof. We now solve the optimization in (13). First, since
the right-hand-side of (13) increases in ℓ, optimal scaled debt satisfies ℓ = ℓ(θ) = v(θ)
                                                                                       θ
                                                                                          .
                                                         v(θ)          v(θ)
    Thus, the borrowing constraint ℓ = ℓ(θ) ≤ min{ θ , p(θ)} = θ binds in optimum.
Second, the optimization with respect to the investment rate i yields i = i(θ) = µv(θ)
                                                                                     θ
                                                                                        . Third,
notice that the right-hand side of (13) is linear in θ̇. As such, for smooth trading, i.e.,
θ̇ ∈ (−∞, +∞) to be optimal, it must be that v ′ (θ) = p(θ).
    Inserting these relations back into (13) and using (11), we can solve
                                   p                                              
                      θ κ(r + δ) − κ (κ (r + δ)2 − µ2 (1 − λ2 − κπ) θ − 2κ µ2 α)
      v(θ) = v̂(θ) :=                                                                .      (A.6)
                                                  κ µ2

Note that (8) implies that the term under the square root is positive. We can then calculate
the stock price via

                                           θ (1 − λ2 − κπ)                    v̂(θ)
           p(θ) = v̂ ′ (θ) = p                                              +       .      (A.7)
                            2 κ (κ (r + δ)2 − µ2 (1 − λ2 − κπ) θ − 2κ µ2 α)     θ




                                         Appendix - 5
Due to condition (9), we have that p(θ) > v(θ)
                                           θ
                                               = y(θ). Finally, calculate

                         κ (1 − λ2 − κ π) (4 κ r2 − 3 µ2 θ + 3 λ2 µ2 θ − 8 α κ µ2 + 3 κ µ2 π θ)
           v̂ ′′ (θ) =                                                                            .
                                 4 (κ (κ r2 − µ2 θ + λ2 µ2 θ − 2 α κ µ2 + κ µ2 π θ))3/2

Conditions (8) and (9) imply that v̂ ′′ (θ) > 0.

A.6       Proof of Proposition 3
Define:
                                   n                                            o
                                                     ′                ′
                            θ = inf θ ∈ [0, 1] : θ̇(θ ) < 0 for all θ ∈ (θ, 1)                         (A.8)
                                   n                                            o
                            θ = inf θ ∈ [0, θ) : θ̇(θ′ ) > 0 for all θ′ ∈ (θ, θ) .                     (A.9)

   Consider an equilibrium with smooth trading. Under smooth trading, we have v̂(θ) =
v(θ) and p(θ) = v ′ (θ),and the trading
                                        rate θ̇ satisfies (17). In addition, ℓ(θ) = v̂(θ)
                                                                                       θ
                                                                                           and thus
            ′
ℓ′ (θ) = θv̂ (θ)−v̂(θ)
               θ2
                       = 1θ v̂ ′ (θ) − v̂(θ)
                                         θ
                                             . Using the last expression together with (A.7), we get:

                                                  (1 − λ2 − κπ)
                          ℓ′ (θ) = p                                              .                   (A.10)
                                  2 κ (κ (r + δ)2 − µ2 (1 − λ2 − κπ) θ − 2κ µ2 α)

   For θ = 0, we have θ̇ = 0. Otherwise, for θ > 0, the sign of θ̇ = θ̇(θ) is determined by

                λ(1 − λ)                       η(θ)
  D(θ) :=                + (ρ − r)ℓ′ (θ) − π −                                  (A.11)
                   κ                            θ
                                                                          "      #+
                       (ρ − r) (1 − λ2 − κπ)             λ(1 − λ)              θ
                                                                               e
          = p                                          +          − π − πI 1 −      ,
                         2     2      2            2
           2 κ (κ (r + δ) − µ (1 − λ − κπ) θ − 2κ µ α)      κ                  θ

where η(θ) is defined in (B.26). Observe that by parameter condition (A.1), D(1) < 0 and
therefore θ̇(1) < 0. This implies that there exists a left-neighborhood of one in which we
have θ̇ < 0, which, in turn, implies θ < 1. More generally, note that θ̇ = θD(θ)
                                                                           p′ (θ)
                                                                                  .
   For θ ̸= θ,
             e D(θ) is differentiable and we obtain
                                                                                       !
                                                              2
                                   (ρ − r)κµ2 (1 − λ2 − κπ)                      π I θe
          D′ (θ) =                                                          −            I{θ > θ}.
                                                                                               e
                     4 [κ (κ (r + δ)2 − µ2 (1 − λ2 − κπ) θ − 2κ µ2 α)]3/2         θ2

Thus, when θ < θ, e we have D′ (θ) ≥ 0 with the inequality being strict if µ > 0. Further, for
     e we have D′′ (θ) > 0.
θ ̸= θ,
    This implies the following. First, for θ ∈ [0, θ],
                                                   e D(θ) has at most one root. Moreover, on
              e 1], D(θ) also has at most one root, since D(1) < 0. It has precisely one root
the interval (θ,
on this interval if and only if D(θ̃) > 0. Taken together, the function D(θ) has at most two
roots on the interval [0, 1]. Since θ̇ ∝ θD(θ), there exist at most three stationary points, i.e.,


                                                Appendix - 6
θ̇(θ) has (weakly) more than one but (weakly) less than three roots on [0, 1].
    We also note that when λ(1 − λ) > κπ, then D(θ) > 0 for all θ ∈ (0, e
                                                                        θ).
    There are three cases to distinguish.

  1. Suppose D(θ) has zero roots on [0, 1]. Then, D(θ) < 0 and θ̇ < 0 for all θ ∈ [0, 1].
     Then, the definition (A.8) implies θ = θ = 0 and note that θ̇(0) = 0.

  2. Suppose that D(θ) has precisely one root, denoted θC , on [0, 1]. Then, it must be that
     this root θC lies in [θ,
                           e 1]. To see this, suppose to the contrary that θC ∈ (0, θ).
                                                                                    e Then,
     D(θ)
        e > 0; thus, there exists a second root on (θ,e 1], a contradiction.

     By definition of θ in (A.8), the root equals θ, i.e., θC = θ, with θ ∈ [θ,
                                                                             e 1].
      We then have D(θ) > 0 and θ̇ > 0 for all θ < θ, as well as D(θ) < 0 and θ̇ < 0 for all
      θ ∈ (θ,
           e 1). The definition of θ implies θ = 0. Overall, θ̇(θ) = θ̇(θ) = 0.
      We note that this case prevails whenever λ(1 − λ) > κπ.

  3. Suppose that D(θ) has two roots, denoted θ1C < θ2C , on [0, 1]. Then, it must be that
     D(0), D(1) < 0 < D(θ), e and the smaller (larger) root satisfies θC ∈ (0, θ)   e (θC ∈ (θ,
                                                                                             e 1)).
                                                                           1            2
                                                                   C          C
     By definition of the thresholds in (A.8), we then have θ1 = θ and θ2 = θ. It follows that
     θ̇ < 0 for θ ∈ (0, θ) or θ ∈ (θ, 1), while θ̇ > 0 for θ ∈ (θ, θ). Moreover, θ̇(θ) = θ̇(θ) = 0.
     Then, whenever µ > 0 and λ(1 − λ) < κπ, we can solve D(θ) = 0 for θ < θ,            e yielding
     θ = Θ for
                               "                                               #
                                                              2       2      2
                    κ                                (ρ −  r)   (1 − λ  − κπ)
     Θ := 2                     (r + δ)2 − 2µ2 α −                               I{λ(1 − λ) < κπ},
                      2
            µ (1 − λ − κπ)                              4 (κπ − λ(1 − λ))2

      which becomes (19), as desired. Observe that we account for the condition λ(1 − λ) <
      κπ through the indicator I{λ(1 − λ) < κπ}.

     The expression Θ determines the number of roots of D(θ). First, when Θ ≥ θ,     e then
D(θ) has zero roots, and θ = θ = 0. Second, when Θ ∈ (0, θ),    e then D(θ) has two roots,
i.e., θ and θ, with θ = Θ and θ ∈ (θ,
                                    e 1). Third, when Θ ≤ 0, then D(θ) has a single root
θ ∈ (θ,e 1), and θ = 0 — this case prevails if λ(1 − λ) > κπ. In particular, whenever θ > 0,
we have θ ∈ (θ,e 1).


A.7     Proof of Proposition 4
We prove the existence of a unique scaled, continuous Markov equilibrium in which the price
satisfies the scaling property, in that P (K, θ) = Kp(θ). The proof proceeds in several parts.
Part I presents the blockholder’s HJB equation (A.16)— allowing for general trading pro-
cesses and lumpy trading—and presents general results regarding the blockholder’s optimal
trading and equilibrium conditions—these conditions must hold in any Markov equilibrium
where the price satisfies P (K, θ) = Kp(θ) and they are also valid in other model variants.
Part II verifies the optimality of the proposed trading strategy: Conjecturing the equilibrium
(scaled) price p(θ) from Proposition 4, it shows that smooth trading is strictly optimal and

                                         Appendix - 7
the (scaled) value function from Proposition 4 solves the HJB equation. Part III argues that
the equilibrium is unique. Unlike Part I, which presents general equilibrium conditions, the
other parts present proofs that only apply to our baseline.

A.7.1     Part I: Equilibrium Properties
We allow for continuous and lumpy trading by specifying the dynamics of the blockholder’s
stake as
                                         dθt = θ̇t dt + dIt ,                           (A.12)
                                                                                      Rt
where θ̇t is the drift of dθt and dIt captures solely lumpy trading, in that It = 0 dIs is
constant except for a countable number of times t. Since we focus on a Markov equilibrium,
we will depress time subscripts in the remainder of the proof.
    Specifically, we consider that at an endogenous (state-dependent) intensity γ ∈ [0, ∞], the
blockholder conducts a lumpy trade toward state θ̂ ∈ [0, 1], where θ̂ is optimally chosen by
the blockholder and thus endogenous. With a slight abuse of notation, γ = +∞ corresponds
to a lumpy trade that occurs with some atom of probability (possibly with probability one).
That is, we can write
                                      dθ = θ̇dt + (θ̂ − θ)dN,                           (A.13)
where dN ∈ {0, 1} is a jump process with E[dN ] = γdt. We introduce the convention that
whenever θ̂ = θ in the aforementioned process, we set γ = 0.
    Given a price P (K, θ) = Kp(θ) for an increasing, continuous function p(θ), we conjecture
and verify that V (K, θ) = Kv(θ) in the Markov equilibrium, where v(θ) and p(θ) are almost
everywhere differentiable (i.e., they are differentiable on [0, 1] except at countably many
points). Thus, for any θ ∈ (0, 1), the limits limx↑θ ω(θ) and limx↓θ ω(θ) exist and are well-
defined for ω ∈ {v ′ , p}.
    We characterize the blockholder’s dynamic optimization, given the conjectured equilib-
rium price P (K, θ) = Kp(θ)—we note that the scaled price function p(θ) need not be the one
proposed in Proposition 4 and our results of this part of the proof hold in any equilibrium.
    To allow for generality and to encompass the model variant of Section 3 or B.3, we impose
that the investment it must satisfy a constraint it ∈ It . In Section 3, we set I = {µp(θ)},
while the baseline has It = [0, ∞). We restrict it = i(θ) to be Markovian.
HJB Equation. In state (Kt , θt ) = (K, θ) at time t, the value function equals
                                     Z ∞
                                                                   Ks i2s
                                                    
                                            −ρ(s−t)
                                                                                          
V (K, θ) =        max             Et      e          θs Ks dXs −          ds + Ls (ρ − r)ds         (A.14)
           (dLs ,dθs ,is ∈Is )s≥t      0                             2
                                          2
                                                  κb(θs )2
                                                                                                       
                                          πθs
                                  − Ks         +             ds − dθs Ks p(θs + dθs ) (Kt , θt ) = (K, θ) ,
                                           2          2

where we impose the optimal contract (with E[dC] = 0), the optimal effort choice from (11),
bs = b(θs ), the default time of T = ∞ and the borrowing constraint Ls ≤ min{ V (Kθss,θs ) , P (Ks , θs )}.
    By the dynamic programming principle and the integral expression (A.14), the block-




                                             Appendix - 8
holder’s value function solves the HJB equation:

                                                 i2        πθ2 κb2
                                                                 
    ρV (K, θ)dt = max K θ α + b + (ρ − r)ℓ −          dt −    −    dt                     (A.15)
                   ℓ,dθ,i∈I                      2          2   2
                                                                                         
                                                                                        
                                + VK (K, θ)K(µi − δ)dt + V (K, θ + dθ) − dθP (K, θ + dθ) ,

where trading dθ follows the endogenous process (A.13), b is given in (11), and the borrowing
constraint becomes Kℓ ≤ min{ V (K,θ)     θ
                                             , P (K, θ)}.
    Using the conjecture V (K, θ) = Kv(θ) and P (K, θ) = Kp(θ), we note             that the gains
from trade V (K, θ + dθ) − dθP (K, θ + dθ) = K v(θ + dθ) − dθp(θ + dθ) are linear in K.
Specifically, if, in state (K, θ), the blockholder changes its stake by θ̂ − θ,      then its total
payoff changes by V (K, θ̂) − (θ̂ − θ)P (K, θ) − V (K, θ) = K v(θ) − (θ̂ − θ)p(θ) . It is therefore
without loss of generality to work with scaled payoffs when characterizing optimal trading.
Using (A.13), one can show—similar to the derivation of (A.5) in Lemma 2—that the scaled
value function satisfies (in equilibrium) the following HJB equation:

                                                           i2     πθ2 κb2
                                                            
   (ρ + δ)v(θ) = max              θ α + b + (ρ − r)ℓ −          −     −     + µiv(θ)
                   θ̇,γ,θ̂,ℓ,i∈I                           2       2    2
                                      h                                                           i
                                  + θ̇ I{θ̇ ≥ 0} lim v ′ (x) − p(x) + I{θ̇ < 0} lim v ′ (x) − p(x)
                                                                    
                                                  x↓θ                           x↑θ
                                                                    
                                                                  
                                  + γ v(θ̂) − v(θ) − (θ̂ − θ)p(θ̂) ,                            (A.16)


subject to incentive constraint (11) for b and the borrowing constraint ℓ ≤ min{ v(θ)
                                                                                  θ
                                                                                      , p(θ)}.
   HJB equation (A.16) generalizes (A.5) to account for the possibility of lumpy trades and
randomized lumpy trades. It is well-defined for θ̇ ∈ (−∞, +∞) and γ ∈ [0, +∞). When
γ = +∞, the HJB equation becomes with some abuse of notation: v(θ) = maxθ̂∈[0,1] v(θ̂) −
(θ̂ − θ)p(θ̂). Moreover, we regard an infinite trading rate θ̇ ∈ {−∞, +∞} as equivalent to
a lumpy trade, γ = +∞. Also note that according to (A.13), the optimization in (A.16)
implies that optimal trading solves the equilibrium condition (10).
Gains From Trade and Equilibrium Trading Condition. For an interior solution
θ̇ ∈ (−∞, +∞) and γ ∈ [0, ∞) to be optimal, it must be

                 lim v ′ (x) − p(x) ≤ 0, and lim v ′ (x) − p(x) ≥ 0,
                                                              
                 x↓θ                               x↑θ
                                                 
                  max v(θ̂) − v(θ) − (θ̂ − θ)p(θ̂) ≤ 0.               (A.17)
                     θ̂∈[0,1]


We define the endogenous region

                          S = {θ ∈ [0, 1] : θ̇ ∈ (−∞, ∞) and γ ∈ [0, ∞)}.                     (A.18)

Thus, S is defined as the set of states in which either smooth trading or lumpy trading at
finite intensity (γ < +∞) is optimal. As in the definition of the trading process in (A.13),


                                            Appendix - 9
we follow the convention that whenever θ̂ = θ, we set γ = 0. That is, whenever there is no
lumpy trade in state θ, then γ = γ(θ) = 0.
   Note that for all θ ∈ S, the condition (A.17) holds. Moreover, S encompasses all states
that may be attained in equilibrium, in that for any θ ∈ S, the blockholder does not imme-
diately trade away from that state.                                                  
   For θ ̸∈ S, by definition, an immediate lumpy trade is optimal so that maxθ̂∈[0,1] v(θ̂) −
                    
v(θ) − (θ̂ − θ)p(θ̂) = 0. Either way, we have

                       v(θ̂) − v(θ) − (θ̂ − θ)p(θ̂) ≤ 0 for all θ, θ̂ ∈ [0, 1].                 (A.19)

Whenever v(0) = 0, we can set θ = 0 in (A.19) to obtain p(θ̂) ≥ v(θ̂θ̂) . That is, when v(0) = 0,
then v(θ)
       θ
             ≤ p(θ) holds for θ ∈ [0, 1].
                                                                          
    Next, consider θ ∈ S. Clearly, maxθ̂∈[0,1] v(θ̂) − v(θ) − (θ̂ − θ)p(θ̂) ≤ 0, which implies
                                
γ v(θ̂) − v(θ) − (θ̂ − θ)p(θ̂) = 0 for any θ̂. Likewise, it is optimal to set θ̇ ≤ 0 when
limx↓θ v ′ (x) − p(x) < 0 and θ̇ ≥ 0 when limx↑θ v ′ (x) − p(x) > 0. Overall, whenever
                                                                   

θ̇ ∈ (−∞, +∞) and γ ∈ [0, ∞) is optimal:
                  h
                                                                           i
        max θ̇ I{θ̇ ≥ 0} lim v ′ (x) − p(x) + I{θ̇ < 0} lim v ′ (x) − p(x)
                                           
                                                                                        (A.20)
         θ̇,γ,θ̂             x↓θ                         x↑θ
                                                                                   
                                                                                
                                                 + γ v(θ̂) − v(θ) − (θ̂ − θ)p(θ̂) = 0.

Plugging condition (A.20) back into (A.16), we obtain for the value function on S:

                                                i2      πθ2 κb2
                                                                        
      (ρ + δ)v(θ) = max θ α + b + (ρ − r)ℓ −         −      −      + µiv(θ) ,      (A.21)
                    ℓ,i∈I                        2       2      2

with b characterized in (11) and ℓ ≤ min{ v(θ)
                                           θ
                                               , p(θ)}. Optimal baseline investment is i = v(θ)
                                                                                            θ
                                                                                                .
Baseline solution and v(0) = 0. Conjecture that v(0) = 0. Then, (A.19) implies v(θ)                θ
                                                                                                      ≤
                                                             v(θ)
p(θ). Thus, the optimization in (A.21) implies ℓ = θ , and we can solve (A.21) for v(θ) =
v̂(θ) for all θ ∈ S. We verify that v(0) = 0. When 0 ∈ S, then (A.21) immediately
implies that v(0) = 0. v(0) solves (A.21) and the claim follows. When 0 ̸∈ S, then an
immediate lumpy trade toward some state θ̂ ∈ S is optimal and v(0) = maxθ̂∈[0,1] G(θ̂) :=
           h                i
maxθ̂∈[0,1] v̂(θ̂) − θ̂p(θ̂) . Note that p(θ̂) = v̂ ′ (θ̂), and G′ (θ̂) = −θ̂v ′′ (θ̂) < 0. In addition,
G(0) = 0 and, because G(θ̂) decreases, we obtain v(0) = 0.

A.7.2    Part II: Optimality of Smooth Trading and Trading Strategy
We verify the optimality of the proposed trading strategy under the proposed price function
satisfying p(θ) = v̂ ′ (θ). That is, we conjecture the equilibrium price p(θ) = v̂ ′ (θ) and verify
that, given this price, smooth trading is optimal and constitutes an equilibrium strategy.
This part then establishes the existence of a continuous, scaled Markov equilibrium.


                                           Appendix - 10
Optimality of Smooth Trading. Consider state θ ∈ S, so that (A.17) holds and
v(θ) = v̂(θ) (as shown before). Because the price is continuous, (A.17) implies that v(θ)
is differentiable, with p(θ) = v ′ (θ).
    We now solve the blockholder’s optimal trading and value function given the conjectured
price function p(θ) = v̂ ′ (θ). For this sake, we solve (10) or, equivalently, the choice of trading
in the HJB equation (A.16). We show that smooth trading is optimal—that is,

                          θ̇dt ∈ arg     max        Kt {v(θ + ∆) − ∆p(θ + ∆)}                        (A.22)
                                       ∆∈[−θ,1−θ]


for finite trading rate θ̇ ∈ (−∞, +∞). Having established the optimality of smooth trading,
the HJB equation (A.16) then implies v(θ) = v̂(θ).
    Note that for any finite trading rate dθ = θ̇dt, we have

      v(θ + θ̇dt) − θ̇dt · p(θ + θ̇dt) = v̂(θ) + v̂ ′ (θ)θ̇dt − θ̇dt · (p(θ) + p′ (θ)θ̇dt) + o((dt)2 )
                                         = v̂(θ) + (v̂ ′ (θ) − p(θ)θ̇dt = v̂(θ),

where the first equality used a Taylor expansion, as well as v(θ) = v̂(θ). The second line uses
v̂ ′ (θ) = p(θ) and discards terms of order (dt)2 or higher (which are negligible in continuous
time), that is, o((dt)2 ) = 0. Thus, smooth trading at any finite rate θ̇ yields continuation
payoff v̂(θ). The blockholder is indifferent across any finite trading rates and, in particular,
v̂(θ) is also the payoff when the blockholder does not trade at all.
       In contrast, consider a lumpy trade toward state θ̂ from any state θ. We assume that
θ̂ ∈ S, as otherwise the lumpy trade would be followed immediately by another lumpy trade
and we could consolidate these trades. Thus, the blockholder chooses dθ = θ̂ − θ in state θ,
which yields (scaled) payoff (given θ):

                        G(θ̂) := v̂(θ̂) − (θ̂ − θ)p(θ̂) = v̂(θ̂) − (θ̂ − θ)v̂ ′ (θ̂).

Note that G(θ) = v(θ) and G′ (θ̂) = −(θ̂ − θ)v̂ ′′ (θ̂). Thus, G(θ̂) obtains its maximum for
θ = θ̂. Thus, given the price p(θ) = v̂ ′ (θ), a lumpy trade is never optimal. It follows that
smooth trading (including not trading at all) strictly dominates any lumpy trade with θ̂ ̸= θ.
     By definition, for all θ ̸∈ S, the blockholder would find it optimal to conduct a lumpy
trade toward a point θ̂ ∈ S. Above argument applies for both θ ∈ S and θ ̸∈ S. However,
we have shown that the blockholder would be better off not trading at all. Thus, the set
[0, 1] − S must be empty or, equivalently, S = [0, 1].
     Thus, given the conjectured price function, smooth trading is optimal for all θ ∈ [0, 1]
and yields v(θ) = v̂(θ). In particular, v(θ) = v̂(θ) solves the HJB equation (A.16).
Solving the Trading Rate. To show that p(θ) = v̂ ′ (θ) is indeed an equilibrium price under
smooth trading and to establish that the proposed equilibrium indeed exists, we need to solve
for the equilibrium trade that is consistent with the price p(θ) = v̂ ′ (θ) for all θ ∈ [0, 1].
    To determine trading rate, we differentiate the closed-form expression for v̂(θ) with re-
spect to θ and using v̂ ′ (θ) = p(θ), we obtain

                                        i2                      θλ(1 − λ)
  (ρ + δ)p(θ) = α + b + µip(θ) −           + (ρ − r)ℓ(θ) − πθ +           + θ(ρ − r)ℓ′ (θ). (A.23)
                                        2                           κ

                                              Appendix - 11
In addition to satisfying (A.23), p(θ) satisfies the pricing equation of dispersed shareholders

                                                i2
                 (ρ + δ − µi)p(θ) = α + b −        + (ρ − r)ℓ(θ) + η(θ) + p′ (θ)θ̇,         (A.24)
                                                2
where p(θ) increases with θ, i.e., p′ (θ) > 0. Combining (A.23) and (A.24) yields (17).
    Finally, as shown by Proposition 3, the trading rate θ̇ = θ̇(θ) satisfies θ̇(0) = 0 and
θ̇(1) < 0. Thus, the smooth trading is such that θ adheres to the “feasibility” constraint
θ[0, 1]. Specifically, the process dθ = θ̇dt with aforementioned trading rate stays within [0, 1].

A.7.3    Part III: Equilibrium Uniqueness
Having shown that a continuous, scaled Markov equilibrium exists, we now argue that it
must be unique. To see this, first recall that in equilibrium the condition (A.17) must hold
for all θ ∈ S. As the price function is continuous, then (A.17) implies that in equilibrium,
v(θ) is differentiable at θ with v ′ (θ) = p(θ) for all θ ∈ S. Thus, on S, we get that v(θ) = v̂(θ)
and p(θ) = v̂ ′ (θ). Given this price, we have shown that the blockholder’s trading rate is
uniquely determined according to (17). Thus, on the set S, the price is uniquely determined
as p(θ) = v̂ ′ (θ), while the value function satisfies v(θ) = v̂(θ).
    This leaves the possibility open that there might be an equilibrium with continuous scaled
price p(θ) which features S ̸= [0, 1]. However, repeating arguments made before, one can
then consider θ ∈ [0, 1] − S. In state θ ̸∈ S, it is then, by definition of the set S, optimal to
lumpily trade toward state θ̂ ∈ S (where v(θ̂) = v̂(θ̂) and p(θ̂) = v̂ ′ (θ̂)). This trade yields
continuation payoff v̂(θ̂)−(θ̂ −θ)v̂ ′ (θ̂) < v̂(θ). Thus, the blockholder would prefer not trading
at all in θ ̸∈ S. Thus, the set [0, 1] − S must be empty in any continuous, scaled trading
equilibrium, while the equilibrium is uniquely determined on S.
    Overall, the continuous, scaled Markov equilibrium we have characterized is unique.


B       Other Results
B.1     Proof of Corollary 3
We recall for the purpose of this proof D(θ) defined in (A.11), satisfying
                                                                                           !+
                        (ρ − r) (1 − λ2 − κπ)        λ(1 − λ)                            θe
 D(θ) = p                                          +          − π − πI                1−      .
                     2   2      2              2
       2 κ (κ (r + δ) − µ (1 − λ − κπ) θ − 2κ µ α)      κ                                θ

Also recall the definition of Θ from (19). Furthermore, we recall from the proof of Proposition
3 in Appendix A.6: Whenever θ > 0, we have θ ∈ (θ,   e 1).
    Also observe that, as t → ∞, the state θ drifts to one of the stationary points — in
particular, 0, θ, and θ. The dynamics of θ are deterministic, so that θ∞ ∈ {0, θ, θ} is
deterministic too. We prove claims (1), and (2) of the Corollary in the respective order.

    1. We start by proving the claims regarding Θ, assuming Θ > 0. Note that D(Θ) = 0



                                         Appendix - 12
      with D′ (Θ) > 0. Thus,
                                          ∂Θ    1 ∂D(Θ)
                                             =− ′       ,                                         (B.1)
                                          ∂x   D (θ) ∂x
      which has the opposite sign as ∂D(θ)
                                        ∂x
                                            . Thus, Θ decreases in µ, increases in r, and
      increases in κ. Next, note that D(θ) decreases in r for any θ, so that θ decreases in r.
      Next, we prove the properties of θ. Suppose that θ > 0. Then, θ > θe satisfies
      D(θ) = 0. The function D(θ) is differentiable at θ ∈ (θ,   e 1), satisfying D′ (θ) < 0.
      Totally differentiating D(θ) with respect to an arbitrary model parameter x, we get
      from the implicit function theorem:

                                           ∂θ    1 ∂D(θ)
                                              =− ′       ,                                        (B.2)
                                           ∂x   D (θ) ∂x

      which has the same sign as ∂D(θ)∂x
                                         . Clearly, D(θ) increases in µ for any θ. Thus, θ
      increases in µ. Next, note that D(θ) decreases in r for any θ, so that θ decreases in r.
      Finally, D(θ) decreases in κ for any θ, so that θ decreases in κ too.

   2. Finally, consider the case ρ − r = 0. Then, D(θ) simplifies to
                                                                       !+
                                         λ(1 − λ)                    θe
                                  D(θ) =          − π − πI        1−
                                            κ                        θ

      and is independent of θ √for θ < θ. e One verifies that λ(1−λ) − π ≥ 0 if and only if
                                                                 κ
      λ ∈ [λ− , λ+ ] for λ± = 1± 1−4κπ
                                 2
                                       , provided 1 ≥ 4κπ. Thus, when λ ∈ [λ− , λ+ ], we have
      D(θ) ≥ 0 for θ < θ, leading to θ∞ > 0 (assuming θ0 > 0).
                          e
      When 1 < 4κπ, then D(θ) < 0 and θ∞ = 0.
      Likewise, when λ < λ− or λ > λ+ , then D(θ) < 0 for all θ ∈ [0, 1], which implies
      θ∞ = 0.

B.2     Proof of Proposition 5
For θ0 ∈ [0, 1], the blockholder’s scaled entry payoff reads

             e(θ0 ) := v(θ0 ) − R(θ0 ) = v(θ0 ) − θ0 p(θ0 ) + min{φ, θ0 }(p(θ0 ) − p(0)),         (B.3)

where v(θ0 ) = v̂(θ0 ) and p(θ0 ) = v̂ ′ (θ0 ), as well as p(0) = v̂ ′ (0).
       Consider θ0 ≤ φ. Then, e(θ0 ) = v̂(θ0 ) − θ0 v̂ ′ (0). Note that e(0) = 0 and e′ (θ0 ) =
v̂ ′ (θ0 ) − v̂ ′ (0) = 0, i.e., e(θ0 ) is increasing and positive for θ0 ∈ (0, φ). This implies
                                                                                              e(φ) > 0.
                                                                    ′             ′        ′
       Next, consider θ0 ≥ φ. Then, e(θ0 ) = v̂(θ0 ) − θ0 v̂ (θ0 ) + φ v̂ (θ0 ) − v̂ (0) . Note that
e(φ) > 0, while e′ (θ0 ) = −(θ0 − φ)v̂ ′′ (θ0 ) < 0. Thus, e(θ0 ) decreases for θ0 > φ.
       Therefore, e(θ0 ) is maximized for θ0 = φ.




                                           Appendix - 13
B.3     Details for Section 3 and Proof of Proposition 6
We now provide the solution details for the model variant with other, dispersed sharehold-
ers controlling investment. Unless otherwise mentioned, all assumptions remain as in the
baseline. We assume µ > 0, as otherwise there is no investment and the baseline model
applies.
    In particular, we assume that instead of the blockholder, the dispersed shareholders
choose investment whenever θ < 1; for θ = 1, the blockholder chooses investment. We look
for a scaled, continuous Markov equilibrium with state variables (Kt , θt ) = (K, θ), where
L(K, θ) = Kℓ(θ), V (K, θ) = Kv(θ), and P (K, θ) = Kt p(θ) with continuous and increasing
price function p(θ). Besides investment choice, all other elements, including debt choice and
the contracting with management, remain unchanged relative to the baseline. When writing
down the payoffs, we already impose the optimal structure of the optimal contract with
management, which is the same as in the baseline. In addition, as in the baseline, it can be
shown that y(θ) < v ′ (θ) = p(θ).
    Formally, dispersed shareholders choose the investment rate to maximize the stock price
P (K, θ), taking the blockholder’s trading dθ and other controls as given. That is, dispersed
shareholders choose investment rate i to maximize
                                        i2
                                                                                 
                                                                       E[dP (K, θ)]
        ρP (K, θ) = max K α + b − + η(θ) + (ρ − r)L(K, θ) +                           ,
                     i≥0                2                                   dt

Due to P (K, θ) = Kp(θ) and dKK
                                = (µi − δ)dt, this optimization can be rewritten as

                                               i2
                                                                             
                                                                     E[dp(θ)]
          (ρ + δ)p(θ) = max α + b + µip(θ) − + (ρ − r)ℓ + η(θ) +                ,
                        i≥0                    2                        dt

where, as we show, equilibrium effort b satisfies b = θ(1−λ)
                                                         κ
                                                             and debt ℓ satisfies ℓ = ℓ(θ) = v(θ)
                                                                                              θ
                                                                                                  .
The optimization with respect to i yields i = i(θ) = µp(θ) for all θ ∈ (0, 1).
    To focus on non-trivial cases and to guarantee the existence of a unique continuous,
scaled Markov equilibrium, we make the following assumptions. First, as in the baseline, we
assume (8), (9), and µi < r + δ. Second, analogously to (A.1), we assume that
                                         s
                                                   2
                              e > (ρ − r) 1 − λ − κπ + 2ακ + λ(1 − λ) − π.
              η(1) = π I (1 − θ)                                                            (B.4)
                                                     κµ2                κ

The condition (B.4) slightly differs from (A.1), but has similar economic meaning. It will
ensure θ̇(1) < 0 and θ < 1, i.e., the blockholder never acquires the entire firm. Likewise, as
shown in Proposition 3, this outcome also prevailed in the baseline. Since the blockholder
never acquires the entire firm or, more generally, a sufficiently large stake (unless it is born
with it), both with and without control over investment, one could assume that the block-
holder controls investment for ownership levels θ sufficiently close to one, without changing
the key findings and equilibrium properties.
   We note that the equilibrium properties of Appendix A.7.1—that is, (A.16), (A.19),
or (A.21)—are also valid in this model variant and are used in the following proofs. In


                                         Appendix - 14
particular, Appendix A.7.1 derives equilibrium properties that must hold in any continuous,
scaled Markov equilibrium under any Markovian investment policy.
    We solve for a continuous, scaled Markov equilibrium where the blockholder trades
smoothly at rate θ̇ = θ̇(θ) for all θ ∈ [0, 1], in that the set S—defined in (A.18)—satisfies
S = [0, 1]. In what follows, we suppose S = [0, 1], solve for the equilibrium, and then verify
in Appendix B.4.2 that S = [0, 1] holds in equilibrium. Appendix B.4.2 also establishes the
uniqueness of the continuous, scaled Markov equilibrium with smooth trading. We note that
this uniqueness result is slightly less general than uniqueness among all continuous, scaled
Markov equilibria (which we established for the baseline).

B.3.1    Optimization and HJB Equation
In a continuous, scaled Markov equilibrium, (A.16) must hold whenever θ̇ ∈ (−∞, ∞) and
a lumpy trade is not strictly optimal, in that gains from trade are zero in equilibrium.
By continuity of the price function, we have p(θ) = v ′ (θ). Analogously to (A.21), the
blockholder’s scaled value function v(θ) solves the HJB equation:

                                                     i2     πθ2 κb2
                                                                         
           (ρ + δ)v(θ) = max θ α + b + (ρ − r)ℓ −         −    −    + µiv(θ) ,     (B.5)
                           ℓ                         2       2    2

subject to (5) and b = θ(1−λ) κ
                                 . We used that the gains from trade are zero, and the
blockholder’s value function is determined “as if” it could not trade at all (i.e., θ̇ = 0).
The choice of scaled debt satisfies, as in the baseline, ℓ(θ) = y(θ) = v(θ)      θ
                                                                                   . The only
and key difference to (13) and (A.21) is that the blockholder does not choose investment,
which, instead,hequals i = iµp(θ) = µv ′ (θ) and statically maximizes equity value p(θ), i.e.,
                            2
i = arg maxî≥0 µîp(θ) − î2 = µp(θ).
     We can insert optimal debt policy, ℓ(θ) = y(θ), and the investment policy, i = µp(θ) =
   ′
µv (θ), into (B.5) to obtain the following first-order ODE for v(θ):

                                         (µv ′ (θ))2     κb2 πθ2
                                                    
              (r + δ)v(θ) = θ α + b −                  −    −    + µ2 v ′ (θ)v(θ).      (B.6)
                                              2           2   2

Using y(θ) = v(θ)
              θ
                  for θ ∈ (0, 1), we obtain from (B.6):

                                  θ(1 − λ2 ) πθ
                                                                      
                                                   2 ′          1 ′
                (r + δ)y(θ) = α +           −   + µ v (θ) y(θ) − v (θ)                    (B.7)
                                     2κ       2                 2

Note that when dispersed investors choose investment, the investment choice generally does
not maximize the blockholder’s scaled value function. As such, the blockholder’s scaled
value function is lower than that in the baseline, in that v(θ) < v̂(θ) and y(θ) < v̂(θ)
                                                                                     θ
                                                                                         for all
θ ∈ (0, 1).




                                        Appendix - 15
B.3.2     ODE for Value Function and Stock Price
First note that according to (A.19), we have

                        v(θ̂) − v(θ) − (θ̂ − θ)p(θ̂) ≤ 0 for all θ, θ̂ ∈ [0, 1].

We conjecture and verify that v(0) = 0 (see below). Setting θ = 0 and using v(0) = 0, we
have p(θ̂) ≥ v(θ̂θ̂) . Thus, y(θ) = v(θ)
                                     θ
                                         ≤ p(θ) = v ′ (θ) holds for all θ ∈ [0, 1].
   Using v ′ (θ) ≥ y(θ) for θ ∈ (0, 1), we can solve (B.6) for v ′ (θ) to obtain:
                        s
                          θ(1 − λ2 − κπ) + 2 α κ + y(θ)2 κ µ2 − 2y(θ) κ (r + δ)
           v ′ (θ) =                                                                + y(θ). (B.8)
                                                  κµ2

The ODE (B.8) is solved on (0, 1) subject to the boundary condition

                                      v(θ)                  v̂(θ)
                                    lim    = lim y(θ) = lim       ,                                   (B.9)
                                   θ→0 θ     θ→0        θ→0 θ

where v̂(θ) is the value function under the baseline (i.e., when blockholder controls invest-
ment) given in (A.6). The boundary condition (B.9) implies in particular, limθ→0 v(θ) =
limθ→0 v̂(θ) = 0, i.e., v(0) = 0. The boundary condition reflects that in the limit θ → 0, the
blockholder’s value function approaches the value under the baseline.
      We now prove that the term under the square root in (B.8) is strictly positive and that
  ′
v (θ) > y(θ) in the continuous, scaled Markov equilibrium. Since we have already shown
v ′ (θ) ≥ y(θ), we suppose to the contrary there exists θ ∈ (0, 1) such that v ′ (θ) = y(θ) for
θ > 0. Thus, the baseline case effectively prevails where i = µp(θ) = µy(θ) maximizes the
blockholder’s value function. Then, (B.6) reduces to (A.21) with i = µv(θ) θ
                                                                              and ℓ(θ) = v(θ)
                                                                                            θ
                                                                                              .
In this case, we could solve (B.6) or, equivalently, (B.7) for
                                      p                                              
                         θ κ(r + δ) − κ (κ (r + δ)2 − µ2 (1 − λ2 − κπ) θ − 2κ µ2 α)
          v(θ) = v̂(θ) =
                                                      κ µ2

where above expression for v̂(θ) is taken from (A.6). Thus, y(θ) = v̂(θ)               θ
                                                                                          . Note that when
v(θ) = v̂(θ), the term under the square root in (B.7) becomes zero.
    The ODE (B.8) and limθ→0 v ′ (θ) = limθ→0 y(θ) imply then y(θ̂) = v ′ (θ̂) and v(θ̂) = v̂(θ̂)
for all θ̂ ∈ [0, θ]. However, v ′ (θ̂) = v̂ ′ (θ̂) > v̂(θ̂θ̂) = y(θ̂) (see (A.7) and (A.6)), a contradiction.
The claim follows, i.e., v ′ (θ) > y(θ) in a continuous, scaled Markov equilibrium for θ ∈ (0, 1).
    We note that limθ→0 v̂(θ) θ
                                = p(0) where p(0) = p0 is defined in Proposition 1. For θ → 0, we
obtain that the term under the square root in (B.8) approaches zero, so that limθ→0 v ′ (θ) =
limθ→0 y(θ) = p(0), i.e., v ′ (0) = p0 .

B.3.3     Existence and Uniqueness of ODE Solution
Together, ODE (B.8) and boundary condition (B.9), as well as p(θ) = v ′ (θ) and the trading
strategy (discussed below), characterize the continuous, scaled Markov equilibrium. A solu-


                                             Appendix - 16
tion to (B.8) exists, but may not be unique. We argue now that v(θ) is uniquely determined.
    Note that the right-hand side of (B.8) is not Lipschitz continuous in v(θ) or y(θ), as
the term under the square root approaches zero as y(θ) approaches v ′ (θ). Thus, standard
uniqueness results do not apply, and there could be a solution to (B.8) where v ′ (θ) = y(θ)
on an interval. However, such a solution is ruled out, as we have shown v ′ (θ) > y(θ) for all
θ ∈ (0, 1).
    That is, v(θ) is the unique solution to (B.8) subject to (B.9) which satisfies v ′ (θ) > y(θ)
for all θ ∈ (0, 1). This solution can also be obtained by solving an auxiliary ODE and
invoking standard uniqueness results. Specifically, for ε > 0 and yε (θ) = vεθ(θ) , we can solve
                 s                                                                       
                        θ(1 − λ2 − κπ) + 2 α κ + yε (θ)2 κ µ2 − 2yε (θ) κ (r + δ)
     vε′ (θ) =   max ε,                                                                       + yε (θ)
                                                κµ2

subject to
                                  vε (θ)                     v̂(θ)
                                  lim    = lim yε (θ) = lim        .
                              θ→0   θ      θ→0           θ→0 θ

The solution vε (θ) to this ODE exists and is unique for any ε > 0, satisfying vε′ (θ) > yε (θ).
We then obtain v(θ) = limε→0 vε (θ) for all θ ∈ [0, 1], satisfying v ′ (θ) > y(θ) for θ ∈ (0, 1).

B.4     Strict Convexity of Value Function
We start by differentiating both sides of the ODE (B.6) with respect to θ to obtain

                              (µv ′ (θ))2
                                         
                                              θλ(1 − λ)
        ′
(r + δ)v (θ) = α + b − πθ −                 +           + µ2 (v ′ (θ))2 + µ2 (v(θ) − θv ′ (θ))v ′′ (θ).
                                   2              κ

Thus, provided θ > 0, we can solve for

                                           (µv ′ (θ))2 θλ(1 − λ)
                                                                              
   ′′              1                                                       ′
  v (θ) = 2 ′                α + b − πθ +            +          − (r + δ)v (θ) .                   (B.10)
           µ θ v (θ) − y(θ)                     2          κ
                             |                        {z                       }
                                                             =:A(θ)


      By (B.8), it follows that v ′ (θ) > y(θ) and µ2 θ v ′ (θ) − y(θ) > 0. Thus, to show that
                                                                     

v ′′ (θ) > 0, we need to show that the term in square brackets in (B.10)—which we denote by
A(θ)—is positive. Generally, (B.10) implies that on (0, 1), v ′′ (θ) has the same sign as A(θ).
      Recall that, as discussed above, the boundary condition (B.9) implies v ′ (0) = p(0) where
p(0) = p0 is characterized in Proposition 1. Thus, inserting v ′ (0) = p(0) into our expression
for A(θ), we get A(0) = 0.
      Next, calculate

            1 − λ2 − κπ                                          1 − λ2 − κπ
 A′ (θ) =               − (r + δ)v ′′ (θ) − µ2 v ′ (θ)v ′′ (θ) =             − (r + δ − µi)v ′′ (θ). (B.11)
                 κ                                                    κ
where we used i = µv ′ (θ). Note that r + δ − µi > 0 (finite valuations requirement ensured
by parameter condition (8)) and that 1 − λ2 − κπ > 0 due to parameter condition (9).


                                             Appendix - 17
      We now prove that A(θ) > 0 (i.e., v ′′ (θ) > 0) in a right-neighborhood of zero. Suppose
to the contrary that there exists ε > 0 such that A(θ) < 0 (i.e., v ′′ (θ) < 0) for all θ ∈ (0, ε).
However, v ′′ (θ) < 0 implies A′ (θ) > 0 owing to (B.11). Thus, due to A(0) = 0, we must
have A(θ) > 0 on this interval, a contradiction. Thus, A(θ) > 0 and v ′′ (θ) > 0 in a
right-neighborhood of zero.
      Last, suppose to the contrary that there exists θ′ ∈ (0, 1) such that v ′′ (θ′ ) < 0, i.e.,
A(θ′ ) < 0. Then, there exits—by continuity of v ′′ (θ) and A(θ)—a value θ′′ ∈ (0, θ′ ) where
v ′′ (θ′′ ) = 0, i.e., A(θ′′ ) = 0, as well as A′ (θ′′ ) < 0. That is, because v ′′ (θ) > 0 and A(θ) > 0
in a right-neighborhood of zero and v ′′ (θ′ ), A(θ′ ) < 0, there must exists a root θ′′ of v ′′ (θ) and
A(θ), whereby A(θ) crosses zero from above with A′ (θ′′ ) < 0. However, inserting v ′′ (θ′′ ) = 0
into (B.11) we obtain A′ (θ′′ ) > 0, a contradiction. It follows that v ′′ (θ) > 0 on (0, 1).

B.4.1    Smooth Trading Rate
We determine the trading rate θ̇ = θ̇(θ). Differentiating both sides of (B.5) with respect to
θ and using p(θ) = v ′ (θ), we get

                                       i2
          (ρ + δ − µi)p(θ) = α + b −      + (ρ − r)ℓ(θ) − πθ                                    (B.12)
                                        2                                         
                                  θλ(1 − λ)             ′      ′        v(θ)
                                +           + θ(ρ − r)ℓ (θ) + i (θ)θµ        − p(θ) .
                                      κ                                  θ

where ℓ = ℓ(θ) = v(θ)
                  θ
                      and i = i(θ) = µp(θ) = µv ′ (θ).
   In analogy to (A.24) in the benchmark model, p(θ) satisfies the fair pricing equation of
dispersed shareholders:

                                                 i2
                  (ρ + δ − µi)p(θ) = α + b −        + (ρ − r)ℓ(θ) + η(θ) + p′ (θ)θ̇.
                                                 2
Combining (B.12) with the fair pricing equation, we can solve for the trading rate:
                                                                                  
                 1    θλ(1 − λ)            ′                     ′
  θ̇ = θ̇(θ) = ′                + θ(ρ − r)ℓ (θ) − πθ − η(θ) + θµi (θ) (y(θ) − p(θ)) . (B.13)
              p (θ)       κ

Due to v ′′ (θ) > 0 and v ′ (θ)θ > v(θ), we get that ℓ′ (θ) = 1θ (p(θ) − y(θ)) > 0 as well as
i′ (θ) = µv ′′ (θ) > 0, so that
                                            
                            ′     v(θ)
                                       − p(θ) = θµ2 v ′′ (θ) y(θ) − v ′ (θ) < 0.
                                                                           
                        θµi (θ)
                                   θ

Finally, we verify that the proposed trading is such that θ stays within [0, 1], which boils
down to showing θ̇(0) ≥ 0 and θ̇(1) ≤ 0. First, inserting θ = 0 into (B.13), we note that




                                           Appendix - 18
θ̇(0) = 0. Second, we can calculate
                                                                                        
                 1  λ(1 − λ)
       θ̇(1) = ′               + (ρ − r)(p(θ) − y(θ)) − π − η(1) + µi′ (1) (y(1) − p(1))
              p (1)       κ                                        |         {z        }
                                                                             ≤0
                    "                   s                                    #
                 1    λ(1 − λ)            (1 − λ2 − κπ) + 2 α κ
             ≤ ′               + (ρ − r)                        − π − η(1) < 0,
              p (1)      κ                         κµ2

where we used (B.8) to transition from the first to the second line, and we used (B.4) for
the last inequality. In addition, we used that
     s                                                       s
               2                      2   2
        θ(1 − λ − κπ) + 2 α κ + y(θ) κ µ − 2y(θ) κ (r + δ)      (1 − λ2 − κπ) + 2 α κ
                                                           ≤                          .
                                 κµ2                                     κµ2

To see this, define

                            θ(1 − λ2 − κπ) + 2 α κ + y 2 κ µ2 − 2y κ (r + δ)
                  B(y) :=                                                    .
                                                 κµ2

Observe that B(0) > 0 and B ′ (y) ∝ −(r+δ−µ2 y). For y ≤ v ′ (θ), we get r+δ−µ2 y > r+δ−µi,
which is positive under the assumption of finite valuations (see (8)).

B.4.2    Optimality of Smooth Trading and Uniqueness
We show that lumpy trades are strictly sub-optimal, in that

                             0 = arg max [v(θ + ∆) − ∆p(θ + ∆)]                          (B.14)
                                       ∆

for any ∆ ∈ [−θ, 1 − θ]. The derivative with respect to ∆ of the term in square brackets
reads G(∆) := v ′ (θ + ∆) − p(θ + ∆) − ∆p′ (θ + ∆). We have p(θ + ∆) = v ′ (θ + ∆), so
G(∆) = −∆v ′′ (θ + ∆). Condition (B.14) holds if v ′′ (θ) > 0 holds for all θ ∈ (0, 1). We have
shown that v(θ) is strictly convex, establishing the optimality of smooth trading. Indeed,
given v ′′ (θ) > 0, it follows that smooth trading dominates lumpy trading in any given state,
also verifying our conjecture that S = [0, 1] holds in our equilibrium.
    Uniqueness of the equilibrium—within the class of continuous, scaled Markov equilibrium
with smooth trading—follows from the uniqueness of the solution v(θ) to (B.8) subject to
(B.9) — which must hold in any continuous, scaled Markov equilibrium with S = [0, 1] —
combined with the pricing condition p(θ) = v ′ (θ).
    Thus, v(θ) and p(θ) are uniquely pinned down in continuous, scaled Markov equilibrium
with smooth trading (which implies S = [0, 1]). As we have shown previously, given v(θ) and
p(θ), the trading rate is uniquely pinned down too, whereby trading is such that θ̇(0) ≥ 0
and θ̇(1) < 0, i.e., the equilibrium trading is consistent the constraint θ ∈ [0, 1].
    Thus, a continuous, scaled Markov equilibrium with smooth trading exists and is unique.




                                           Appendix - 19
B.4.3    Proof of Corollary 4
First, the assumptions imply that under investor control over investment, the trading rate
satisfies according to (21):
                                      1
                             θ̇ =            [θµi′ (θ) (y(θ) − p(θ))] < 0.
                                    p′ (θ)

Thus, limt→∞ θt = θ̂ as well as limt→∞ p(θt ) = p(θ̂) for some value θ̂ ∈ [0, θ0 ]. Suppose, to
the contrary, that θ̂ > 0. Then, limθ↓θ̂ θ̇ = 0 which implies limθ↓θ̂ y(θ) = limθ↓θ̂ p(θ), which
contradicts that y(θ) < p(θ) on (0, 1). Therefore, limt→∞ θt = 0, which implies—by virtue
of (B.9)—that limt→∞ p(θt ) = v̂ ′ (0).
    Now, consider the baseline model. that the blockholder obtains the baseline, so the
trading rate in the continuous, scaled Markov equilibrium is given in (17). Under our as-
sumptions π = λ = ρ−r = 0, (17) readily implies θ̇ = 0, so that θt and p(θt ) remain constant
at θt = θ0 and p(θt ) = p(θ0 ), where p(θ0 ) > p(0) = p0 .

B.5     Risky Debt: Details and Proof of Proposition 8
Suppose that the firm experiences a downward jump in capital stock at Poisson rate Λ, in
that Kt follows
                               dKt
                                      = (µit − δ)dt − (1 − St )dNtK ,
                               Kt−
where Kt− = lims↑t Ks denotes the left-limit of capital, i.e., the capital stock at time t just
before the shock to capital is realized. Here, dNtK ∈ {0, 1} is the increment of a Poisson
                             E[dN K ]
process with intensity Λ = dt t > 0 and St (or equivalently 1 − St ) is uniformly distributed
over [0, 1] and i.i.d across time t. That is, each time t, there is a new random draw of St
from U ([0, 1]) which is not observable unless dNtK = 1 and in particular not observable at
time t− . Instantaneous cash flows equal Kt− dXt . Intuitively, a capital shock over [t, t + dt]
does not affect current cash flows dXt , but “next-period” cash flows.
     Throughout, we assume that the blockholder chooses debt and investment. Furthermore,
we assume that the large capital shock, specifically dNtK and St are not contractible with
management; they are also not influenced by management, which only affects the cash flows
Kt− dXt . That is, the manager’s contract takes the same form as in the baseline, featuring a
base wage ct and an exposure βt to cash flow realizations. By this assumption, we rule out
the possibility that the firm could write an insurance contract with management in which the
manager provides a large cash payment to repay debt following the shock—such a contract
is counterfactual. Thus, the manager’s contract Ct = (ct , βt ) is only contingent on cash flows
Kt− dXt . We already use that the flow wage equals zero, i.e., ct = 0, and that the sensitivity
satisfies βt = λ.
     In the following, we omit time subscripts and the left-limit notation, unless necessary.
Specifically, fraction 1 − S of the capital is destroyed, where S is uniformly distributed on
[0, 1]. Hence, when pre-shock capital stock equals K, then post-shock capital stock equals
SK. In the event that the firm defaults following this shock, creditors recover the firm’s
liquidation value or RSK, where R < p(0) is sufficiently small to ensure that liquidation is

                                              Appendix - 20
inefficient and creditors cannot be repaid in full in the event of default in equilibrium. See
Section B.5.5 for a characterization of p(0)—since p(0) is generally not available in closed-
form, there is unfortunately no explicit condition on parameters that ensures R < p(0).

     The heuristic timing of the model with large shocks to capital within a time interval
[t, t + dt] is as follows. Initially, the blockholder’s stake equals θt and capital stock equals
Kt− . First, at the beginning of [t, t + dt], given a blockholder stake θt , shareholders choose
the managerial contract Ct = (ct , βt ), the investment rate it ≥ 0, and the amount of short-
term debt Lt , where we assume that the proceeds from debt issuance are distributed as
dividends (one can net out these dividends with the debt repayment of the previous instant).
Second, the blockholder chooses its effort; then dNt realized and, observing dNt , the manager
chooses diversion mt . Then, cash flows dXt and capital shock dNtK (1 − St ) are realized;
the manager receives its promised payments. At this point in time, capital stock equals
Kt− 1 − (1 − St )dNtK . Third, at the end of [t, t + dt], debt matures and shareholders repay
debtholders (1 + rt dt)Lt , where rt is the endogenous interest rate, or default, in which case it
is liquidated and the blockholder’s continuation payoff and firm value become zero. In case of
no default, cash flows net of investment cost, managerial compensation, and debt repayment
are distributed as dividends to shareholders. Fourth, after cash flows and capital shock are
realized, the blockholder can trade and chooses dθt , determining the next-period stake θt+dt =
θt + dθt . Notably, the blockholder can trade just beforeor just after debt      is repaid.
                                                                                              Finally,
                                                                                                 
investment and deprecation materialize, so Kt+dt = Kt− 1 − (1 − St )dNtK + Kt− µit − δ dt.19
     We characterize a continuous, scaled Markov equilibrium with state variables (Kt− , θt− ) =
(K, θ), where Vt− = Kt− v(θt− ), Pt− = Kt− p(θt ), and Lt− = Kt− ℓ(θt )—we omit time sub-
scripts unless necessary. For brevity, we omit a formal proof of existence and uniqueness and
sketch the arguments here. However, one could adapt our baseline arguments to prove the
existence and uniqueness of a scaled, continuous Markov equilibrium, as well as to establish
the optimality of smooth trading.
     Following the same arguments as in the baseline, we obtain v ′ (θ) = p(θ) as well as the
strict convexity of v(θ), i.e., v ′′ (θ) > 0 at points of differentiability, as necessary conditions
for the optimality of smooth trading. Moreover, we use that y = y(θ) = v(θ)            θ
                                                                                           increases in
θ, i.e., θv (θ) − v(θ) > 0. Likewise, we already use that optimal investment satisfies µv(θ)
            ′
                                                                                                    θ
                                                                                                      ,
                                                    θ(1−λ)
as well as that blockholder effort satisfies b = κ . All these properties can be proven by
repeating the same arguments as in the baseline; we omit them for the sake of brevity.
     Default and Credit Spreads We start by characterizing endogenous default and credit
spreads. Consider the firm just after it has issued scaled debt of ℓ in state (K, θ). When a
shock of size S realizes,
                           the blockholder’s (unscaled) payoff drops from K(v(θ) − ℓ) pre-shock
to K Sv(θ) − θℓ post-shock.
                                                                     
     When the blockholder’s post-shock payoff K[Sv(θ) − θℓ (before debt repayment) is
negative, i.e., Sv(θ)
                   θ
                       < ℓ, the firm defaults following the shock. Analogous to the reasoning in
  19
    The change in the capital stock due to investment and depreciation is of order dt and its effect on other
quantities of order dt therefore negligible. As such, the exact timing of when the capital stock is updated
does not matter for trading or default. For convenience and to avoid tedious notation, we assume it occurs
at the very end of the period.


                                             Appendix - 21
Lemma 1, which shows that the firm defaults whenever the blockholder’s payoff is strictly
negative, default following the shock occurs in one of two ways. Either the blockholder has
the authority to force default, or it sells its entire stake (at a positive price), thereby reducing
the firm’s equity value below the level of outstanding debt and making default optimal for
dispersed shareholders. Otherwise, when Sv(θ)     θ
                                                      ≥ ℓ, the firm does not default following a
shock.
   Recall the definition (12), that is, y(θ) := v(θ)   θ
                                                         . In the Appendix, we may occasionally
suppress the dependence of y on θ. As argued above, following a shock with size S, the firm
defaults if and only if
                                                                  ℓ(θ)
                             Sy(θ) < ℓ = ℓ(θ) ⇐⇒ S <                   .
                                                                  y(θ)
Conditional on a shock occurring, the probability of default is therefore given by ∆ := yℓ —
which is a function of θ (dependence suppressed for convenience). Thus, the probability of
default over an instant [t, t + dt] is Λ∆dt.
     The recovery value in default following a size S-shock is RKS. Conditional on default,
i.e., S < yℓ , creditors recover in expectation 2yℓ RK dollars, i.e., 2y
                                                                      R
                                                                         dollars per unit of debt
(with face value of one dollar). When risk-neutral creditors with discount rate r lend one
dollar, they require an expected repayment at time t + dt of 1 + rdt dollars, in that
                                             R
                          1 + rdt = Λ∆dt ·      + (1 − Λ∆dt)(1 + r̂dt),
                                             2y
where r̂ is the endogenous interest rate on debt.
    To understand the above equality, note that over [t, t + dt], the creditors are repaid the
dollar plus interest r̂dt in case the firm does not default, which happens with probability
1 − Λ∆dt. With probability Λ∆dt, the firm defaults and creditors recover in expectation
R
2y
   < 1 dollars per dollar lent. We can solve the above expression for the fair interest rate
                                                       
                                                     R
                                    r̂ := r + Λ∆ 1 −      ,
                                                     2y
                                                                                 
                                                                               R
which coincides with (22). Therefore, the credit spread equals r̂ − r = Λ∆ 1 − 2y   .

B.5.1    Payoffs
The following derivations turn out to be convenient in characterizing the blockholder’s payoff
function. Conditional on a shock occurring and no default — that is, Sv(θ) ≥ θℓ ⇐⇒ S ≥ yℓ
— the average value of S equals:
                                                           
                       S
                                              1 ℓ              1+∆
                     Et S Sv(θ) ≥ θℓ; θt = θ =          +1 =            .
                                                  2 y               2




                                          Appendix - 22
Thus, scaled continuation payoff post-shock but before debt repayment equals
                                                            
    S
                                             v(θ) ℓ                 θy
   Et Sv(θ) − θℓ dNt = 1; Sv(θ) ≥ θℓ; θt = θ =            + 1 − θℓ = (1 + ∆) − θℓ.
                                                   2    y              2

for the blockholder. It equals
                                                                 
                                                  p(θ)       ℓ        p(θ)
     ESt
           
            Sp(θ) − ℓ dNt = 1; Sv(θ) ≥ θℓ; θt = θ =             +1 −ℓ=      (1 + ∆) − ℓ
                                                    2         y         2

for the dispersed investors. Given a level of debt ℓ, we can calculate the expected continuation
payoff for the blockholder conditional on a shock occurring as:

            E b (θ) := ESt max{0, Sv(θ) − θℓ} dNt = 1; θt = θ
                                                               
                                                   
                                v(θ)                      θy 
                    = (1 − ∆)        (1 + ∆) − θℓ =              1 − ∆2 ] − ℓ(1 − ∆),
                                 2                         2

where the ESt is taken with respect to the random variable S conditional on dNtK = 1.
Likewise, the expected continuation payoff for the dispersed shareholders, i.e., the expected
stock price, conditional on a shock occurring becomes

            E p (θ) := ESt Sp(θ) − ℓ I{Sv(θ) ≥ θℓ} dNt = 1; θt = θ
                                                                 
                                                                                       (B.15)
                                                      
                                p(θ)                 p(θ) 
                    = (1 − ∆)        (1 + ∆) − ℓ =          1 − ∆2 ] − ℓ(1 − ∆),
                                 2                     2

where the indicator I{Sv(θ) ≥ θℓ} equals one if and only if the firm does not default following
the shock, that is, if and only if S ≥ yℓ .
    We heuristically derive the blockholder’s HJB equation under optimal debt and invest-
ment choice, starting in state (K, θ) with zero debt outstanding. Recall that in optimum
i = µy. Importantly, in equilibrium, gains from trade are zero and v ′ (θ) = p(θ), so the
blockholder’s payoff is “as if” it could not trade and θ remains constant. Thus, consider
the hypothetical scenario that θ remains constant over [t, t + dt]. First, recall that the firm
receives a capital shock with probability Λdt, in which case it defaults with probability ∆dt
and does not default otherwise. The scaled payoff from issuing Kℓ dollars of debt maturing
at t + dt, with proceeds paid out as dividends, satisfies:

                                              i2     πθ2 κb2
                                                             
             Kv(θ) = θKℓ + K θ α + b −             −      −        dt
                                              2       2      2
                     + e−ρdt (1 − Λdt) [K + (µi − δ)dt]v(θ) − θKℓ(1 + r̂dt)
                                      
                                        n                                       o
                     + e−ρdt Λ(1 − ∆)dt K[S̃ + (µi − δ)dt]v(θ) − θKℓ(1 + r̂dt) ,
             h        i                                              
where S̃ := E S S ≥ yℓ = 12 + 2yℓ for y = v(θ)
                                           θ
                                               , r̂ = r + Λ∆   1 − R
                                                                   2y
                                                                        , and ∆ = yℓ .
   Taking the limit dt → 0, ignoring terms of order (dt)2 , and doing some algebra, we can



                                         Appendix - 23
derive that the blockholder’s value function solves
                                          i2              πθ2 κb2
                                                      
        (ρ + δ + Λ − µi)v(θ) =θ α + b − + (ρ + Λ − r̂)ℓ −    −    + ΛE b (θ).
                                           2               2   2

Note that the shock arrival rate Λ effectively augments the blockholder’s discount rate, i.e.,
the “effective” discount rate becomes ρ+Λ. Inserting the interest rate r̂ from (22) into above
equation, we can rearrange to obtain for the blockholder’s value function:

                                                 i2     πθ2 κb2 θΛ 
                                                   
                                                                           y − ∆2 (y − R) ,
                                                                                          
   (ρ + δ − µi + Λ)v(θ) =θ α + b + (ρ − r)ℓ −         −    −       +
                                                  2      2     2      2
                                                                                        (B.16)

given the controls.

B.5.2   Optimal Debt Choice
Taking the derivative of the right-hand-side of (B.16) with respect to ℓ, we get

                  ∂v(θ)              θΛ∆(y − R)   (ρ − r) ℓ(y − R)
                        ∝ θ(ρ − r) −            ∝        −         ,
                   ∂ℓ                    y           Λ       y2
where the proportionality sign ∝ indicates the omission of positive scaling constants. If
ℓ < v(θ)
      θ
         , i.e. the borrowing constraint (5) does not bind, the optimal choice of debt ℓ solves
∂v(θ)
  ∂ℓ
      = 0. As such, we can solve for

                                                    (ρ − r)y 2
                                                              
                                ℓ = ℓ(θ) = min y,                ,                      (B.17)
                                                    Λ(y − R)

where, as we recall, y = y(θ) = v(θ)θ
                                       . We also note that y = y(θ) ≥ p(0) = p0 , so the
denominator of above expression is strictly positive.
   As such, the default probability, conditional on a shock occurring, becomes
                                                              
                                    ℓ(θ)              (ρ − r)y
                           ∆(θ) =        = min 1,                .
                                    y(θ)            Λ(y − R)

B.5.3   Stock Price and Trading Rate
The stock price satisfies the pricing equation

                                                 i2                   κb2
          (ρ + δ + Λ − µi)p(θ) =α + b − πθ −        + (ρ + Λ − r̂)ℓ −     + ΛE p (θ),
                                                 2                     2
where E p (θ) is the expected continuation stock price conditional on a shock occurring from
(B.15). Here, Λ augments the discount rate of dispersed shareholders. Upon a shock occur-
ring with probability Λ, the dispersed shareholders realize the expected continuation stock



                                        Appendix - 24
price E p (θ). We can rewrite the pricing equation as follows:

                                                           i2
                       (ρ + δ + Λ)p(θ) =α + b + (ρ − r)ℓ − + µip(θ) + η(θ)
                                                          2     
                                           Λ p(θ) − ∆2 (p(θ) − R)
                                        +                          + p′ (θ)θ̇.               (B.18)
                                                      2
Next, we derive the blockholder’s valuation of an additional unit of stock, i.e., v ′ (θ), which,
in equilibrium, must equal the stock price p(θ). We distinguish two cases, (i) ℓ < 1 and (ii)
ℓ = y.
Borrowing Constraint ℓ ≤ y(θ) is slack. First, suppose that ℓ < y = y(θ), which implies
∆ < 1. Then, the choice of debt ℓ solves the first-order condition ∂v(θ)∂ℓ
                                                                              = 0, and so does
                 ∂v(θ)
investment, i.e., ∂i = 0. We now invoke the envelope theorem and differentiate both sides
of (B.16) with respect to θ. After some algebra, we obtain that the marginal valuation of
an additional unit of stock from the blockholder perspective satisfies v ′ (θ) = p(θ) with

                                                          i2             θλ(1 − λ)
                (ρ + δ + Λ)p(θ) = α + b − πθ + (ρ − r)ℓ − + µip(θ) +
                                                         2                  κ
                                      Λ p(θ) − ∆2 (p(θ) − R)               2
                                                                          ℓ (y − R)
                                    +                         + θΛy ′ (θ)           .
                                                  2                           y3
                            2
The last term θΛy ′ (θ) ℓ (y−R)
                           y3
                                is strictly positive due to y ′ (θ) > 0 and can be rewritten as
follows:
               ℓ2 (y − R)             ℓ(y − R)               (ρ − r)y y − R
   θΛy ′ (θ)          3
                          = θΛy ′ (θ)      2
                                               ∆ = θΛy ′ (θ)             2
                                                                            ∆ = θ(ρ − r)y ′ (θ)∆.
                    y                    y                   Λ(y − R) y

Borrowing Constraint ℓ ≤ y(θ) is binding. Second, consider ℓ = ℓ(θ) = y(θ), i.e., ∆ = 1.
Then, the choice of debt is constrained by the borrowing constraint ℓ ≤ y and does not solve
a first-order condition. Again, we differentiate both sides of (B.16) with respect to θ. We
then obtain that the marginal valuation of an additional unit of stock from the blockholder
perspective satisfies v ′ (θ) = p(θ) with

                                                         i2           θλ(1 − λ)
                (ρ + δ + Λ)p(θ) = α + b − πθ + (ρ − r)ℓ − + µip(θ) +
                                                        2                κ
                                                 2
                                     Λ p(θ) − ∆ (p(θ) − R)
                                   +                        + θ(ρ − r)ℓ′ (θ).
                                                 2
Due to ℓ(θ) = y(θ) whenever ∆ = 1, we have

                     θ(ρ − r)ℓ′ (θ) = θ(ρ − r)y ′ (θ)∆ = (ρ − r)[p(θ) − y(θ)] > 0.

   In both scenarios, we can combine above equations for p(θ) = v ′ (θ) with (B.18) to solve




                                            Appendix - 25
for the trading rate:
                                                                      
                            1    θλ(1 − λ)                        ′
                     θ̇ = ′                − πθ − η(θ) + θ(ρ − r)y (θ)∆ .           (B.19)
                         p (θ)       κ

Here, θ(ρ − r)y ′ (θ)∆ = (ρ − r)∆ p(θ) − y(θ) > 0 captures the gains from trade associated
                                             

with risky debt.

B.5.4    Dynamics of Debt, Default Probabilities, and Credit Spreads
                                                                       2
Suppose that in state (K, θ), optimal debt satisfies ℓ = (ρ−r)y(θ)
                                                         Λ(y(θ)−R)
                                                                   < y. Then,

                           y ′ (θ)(ρ − r) 2y(y − R) − y 2   y ′ (θ)(ρ − r) y(y − 2R)
                ℓ′ (θ) =                                  =                          .
                                  Λ          (y − R)2              Λ        (y − R)2

If R ≤ p(0)
         2
            , y − 2R is unambiguously positive and debt ℓ increases with θ. Otherwise, when
p(0)
  2
     < R < p(0), then there exists a right-neighborhood of 0 in which ℓ′ (θ). Then, ℓ(θ) is
generally U-shaped in θ, i.e., first decreases and then increases in θ.
     Next, the default probability ∆(θ) satisfies

                    y ′ (θ) (y(θ) − R)(ρ − r) − (ρ − r)y(θ)      y ′ (θ) (ρ − r)
         ∆′ (θ) =                                           = −R                  < 0.
                       Λ             (y(θ) − R)2                    Λ (y(θ) − R)2

Thus, the default probability decreases with θ.
   Finally, calculate the credit spread r̂ − r = (ρ−r)y
                                                  y−R
                                                          R(ρ−r)
                                                        − 2(y−R)            2y−R
                                                                 = (ρ − r) 2(y−R) which decreases
with θ.

B.5.5    Dispersed Ownership Benchmark
Under (perpetual) dispersed shareholder ownership, the stock price satisfies Kp(0) and in-
vestment satisfies i = i0 µp(0), as in the baseline. Debt issuance ℓ = ℓ0 is subject to the bor-
rowing constraint ℓ ≤ p(0), which ensures that equity value remains positive and precludes
immediate default. Moreover, following a capital shock of size S, the firm defaults under
                                                                                             ℓ
dispersed ownership whenever Sp(0) < ℓ, leading to the probability of default ∆ = ∆0 = p(0)    .
   Analogously to the pricing equation (B.18)—which holds for θ > 0—the scaled passive-
ownership price satisfies
                                                                       2
                                                                                    !
                                               2            Λ   p(0) − ∆  (p(0) − R)
                                             i
  (ρ + δ + Λ)p(0) = max α + (ρ − r)ℓ − + µip(0) +                                      . (B.20)
                       ℓ                     2                          2

It can be obtained similar to (B.18) upon setting θ̇ = 0, η(θ) = 0, and θ = 0, while optimizing
the right-hand-side over debt.
    Debt choice satisfies under dispersed ownership solves the first-order condition (if inte-




                                            Appendix - 26
rior):
                                             Λℓ(p(0) − R)
                                 (ρ − r) −                = 0,
                                                (p(0))2
leading to
                                               (ρ − r)(p(0))2
                                                                
                                  0
                             ℓ = ℓ = min p(0),
                                                Λ(p(0) − R)
One can insert this expression for ℓ = ℓ0 back into (B.20), but there is no closed-form solution
for p(0); one needs to solve p(0) numerically. Overall, p(0) will be a function of R. We impose
p(0) > R, which leads to an implicit parameter condition on R.
    Note that p(0) > R implies that in equilibrium, the recovery value is insufficient to repay
creditors in full in the event of default, making debt is risky. To see this, note that the
                                               ℓ0
firm default in state θ = 0 whenever S < p(0)     . Upon default, creditors then recover SRK
                                                                           ℓ 0
dollars. Due to SR < Sp(0) < ℓ0 — where we used R < p(0) and S < p(0)          — this amount
is insufficient to repay creditors in full. Likewise, in state θ, the firm defaults whenever
S < yℓ , in which case creditors recover SRK dollars. Due to SR < p(0)y
                                                                         ℓ < ℓ, this amount is
insufficient to repay creditors in full.

B.5.6    Investor Control
We now briefly discuss how the solution changes when dispersed investors are in control of
corporate policies, allowing them to choose both investment and debt. In a continuous, scaled
Markov equilibrium with smooth trading, we have p(θ) = v ′ (θ). Under investor control, debt
and investment are determined according to:

                                                                    i2
                                        
               (ρ + δ + Λ)p(θ) = max α + b + η(θ) + (ρ − r)ℓ − + µip(θ)
                                    i,ℓ                             2
                                                              
                                        Λ p(θ) − ∆2 (p(θ) − R)
                                                                          
                                                                    ′
                                     +                           + p (θ)θ̇ .          (B.21)
                                                   2

where ∆ = yℓ and ℓ ≤ y. This leads to i = iI = µp(θ) = µv ′ (θ). Debt choice satisfies under
investor control the first-order condition (if interior)

                                             Λℓ[p(θ) − R]
                                 (ρ − r) −                = 0,
                                                  y2
which we solve for
                                               (ρ − r)y 2
                                                         
                                      I
                               ℓ = ℓ = min y,               .
                                              Λ[p(θ) − R]
Given these policies, the blockholder value function satisfies (B.16), that is:

                                                 i2     πθ2 κb2 θΛ 
                                                   
                                                                           y − ∆2 (y − R) ,
                                                                                         
  (ρ + δ − µi + Λ)v(θ) = θ α + b + (ρ − r)ℓ −         −       −     +
                                                  2       2      2      2




                                          Appendix - 27
                                            I
where the default probability ∆ = ∆I = ℓy is a non-linear function of v ′ (θ) = p(θ), provided
ℓI < y; ℓ(θ) = ℓI (θ) and i(θ) = iI (θ) are functions of θ too. This ODE is solved subject to
limθ→0 v(θ)
         θ
            = p(0)—with p(0) characterized in the dispersed ownership benchmark.
    The determination of the continuous, scaled Markov equilibrium becomes similar to that
in Section 3, but the ODE is now significantly more complicated and cannot even be explicitly
solved for v ′ (θ). We leave the further analysis of this model variant.
Trading Rate with Investor Control. Yet, we can solve for the trading rate, without
further characterizing the ODE for v(θ) or having a closed-form solution for v(θ) or p(θ).
For this sake, assume that the borrowing constraint does not bind in that ℓI < y(θ). Then,
we can differentiate both sides of (B.16) with respect to θ to get that p(θ) = v ′ (θ) satisfies:
                                                                                              
                                                   i2 θλ(1 − λ) Λ p(θ) − ∆2 (p(θ) − R)
  (ρ + δ + Λ−µi)p(θ) = α + b − πθ + (ρ − r)ℓ − +                   +
                                                   2         κ                    2
                    y ′ (θ)ℓ2                             ∂v(θ) ∂ℓI 
               + θΛ           (y − R) + (ρ + δ + Λ − µi)               + i′ (θ)θµ(y(θ) − p(θ)) .
                         y3                                 ∂ℓ   ∂θ      |         {z        }
                                                                                            <0
                                                           | {z }
                                                                   >0

              ′    2
The term θΛ y (θ)ℓ
              y3
                   (y − R) satisfies

         y ′ (θ)ℓ2                 ′
                                                                (ρ − r)2 y
                                                                            
                                2 y (θ)[y − R]
      θΛ           (y − R) = θΛ∆               = θy ′ (θ)                        = θ(ρ − r)y ′ (θ)∆.
              y3                        y                       Λ(y − R)

Combining these with (B.21), we can solve for the trading rate through θ̇ = pA(θ)
                                                                              ′ (θ) where



                          θλ(1 − λ)
                  A(θ) =            − πθ − η(θ) + θ(ρ − r)y ′ (θ)
                              κ
                                          ∂v(θ) ∂ℓI 
                       + (ρ + δ + Λ − µi)              + i′ (θ)θµ(y(θ) − p(θ)) .
                                            ∂ℓ   ∂θ      |         {z        }
                                                                        <0
                                           | {z }
                                                >0

To gain some intuition, note that if dispersed investors are in control, they choose too high
investment i = iI = µp(θ) and too low debt ℓ = ℓI from the blockholder’s perspective.
Therefore, a marginal increase in investment (debt) reduces (increases) the blockholder’s
value function, in that ∂v(θ)
                          ∂i
                               < 0 and ∂v(θ)
                                          ∂ℓ
                                               > 0. The blockholder internalizes that when
increasing its ownership stake marginally, it induces dispersed shareholders to choose higher
levels of investment and debt, which affects its own payoff. This effect influences the block-
holder’s valuation of an additional unit of equity, and therefore the gains from trade and
trading rate θ̇. Consequently, as also shown in Section 3, delegating investment decisions to
dispersed shareholders reduces the blockholder’s propensity to acquire additional shares and
encourages exit. In contrast, delegating debt decisions to dispersed shareholders increases
the blockholder’s propensity to acquire additional shares.




                                         Appendix - 28
B.6     Large Trades and Proof of Proposition 7
We characterize a scaled Markov equilibrium where P (K, θ) = p(θ) and V (K, θ) = Kv(θ).
   For convenience and to abstract from knife-edge cases, we assume that the reverse in-
equality of (A.1) holds strictly (i.e., condition (A.1) is “strictly” violated), in that

                               (ρ − r) (1 − λ2 − κπ)            λ(1 − λ)
 η(1) = π I (1 − θ)
                 e < p                                        +          − π. (B.22)
                                  2     2      2          2
                    2 κ (κ (r + δ) − µ (1 − λ − κπ) − 2κ µ α)      κ

We note that in this case, it is not possible to construct a scaled Markov equilibrium where
the price function is continuous. Instead, we will construct a Markov equilibrium where p(θ)
exhibits one discontinuity at the endogenous threshold θ∗ . Here, we note that the results
from Appendix Section A.7.1 also apply in this context, since this Appendix establishes
generalized equilibrium properties that hold in any scaled Markov equilibrium, i.e., so long
as P (K, θ) = Kp(θ) and V (K, θ) = Kv(θ). All state dependent controls b = b(θ), the
managerial contract, i = i(θ), and ℓ = ℓ(θ) are analogous to the baseline.
    Finally, note that n the equilibrium of Proposition 7, the price exhibits one discontinuity
(upward jump) at θ = θ∗ . While there can be multiple equilibria and, in particular, nu-
merous equilibria with price discontinuities, we characterize the equilibrium closest to the
one from the baseline with a minimum number of price discontinuities, specifically, a single
discontinuity. Within the class of equilibria where p(θ) has at most one discontinuity, we
obtain uniqueness.

B.6.1    Preliminaries
In the following, it will be convenient to work with p̂(θ) defined via
                                                               2
                                  α + b(θ) + (ρ − r)ℓ(θ) − i(θ)
                                                             2
                                                                + η(θ)
                         p̂(θ) :=                                      ,                    (B.23)
                                             ρ + δ − µi(θ)

with ℓ(θ) = v̂(θ) θ
                    , i(θ) = µv̂(θ)
                               θ
                                    , and b = b(θ) from (11). Note that p̂(θ) is the hypothetical
scaled price that would prevail if the blockholder perpetually maintained ownership θ.
       One can show that whenever (A.1) does not hold, we have v̂ ′ (1) ≥ p̂(1), i.e., by construc-
tion, the condition (A.1) is equivalent to v̂ ′ (1) < p̂(1) — which implies, by v̂ ′′ (θ) > 0, that
v̂ ′ (θ) < p̂(1).
       Next, define
                                  JH (θ) = v̂(1) − (1 − θ)p̂(1) − v̂(θ),
where p̂(1) is the hypothetical price that prevails if the blockholder perpetually owns the
entire firm with θ = 1. Note that JH′ (θ) = p̂(1) − v̂ ′ (θ) and JH′′ (θ) = −v̂ ′′ (θ) < 0. Thus,
JH′ (1) < 0. Since JH (1) = 0, it follows that JH (θ) has maximally one root on (0, 1), while
JH (θ) < 0 for θ > 1.
     We define
                                 θ∗ = inf{θ ≥ 0 : JH (θ) ≥ 0}                               (B.24)
Due to JH′′ (θ) < 0 and JH (1) = 0 as well as JH′ (1) < 0, there exist a left-neighborhood of 1
on which JH (θ) > 0. Thus, θ∗ ∈ (0, 1). If JH (θ) has a root on (0, 1), then θ∗ is this root, i.e.,

                                         Appendix - 29
JH (θ∗ ) = 0. Otherwise, JH (θ) ≥ 0 for all θ ∈ (0, 1) and θ∗ = 0.
    We note that θ∗ ∈ (0, 1) if and only if JH (0) < 0, i.e., v̂(1) − p̂(1) < 0. If JH (0) ≥ 0,
the equilibrium is trivial, with the blockholder immediately acquiring the entire firm and
perpetually maintaining full ownership (θ = 1).
    We therefore assume (B.22) — that is, JH (0) = v̂ ′ (1) − p̂(1) < 0 — in what follows to
obtain an equilibrium with meaningful trading dynamics. This implies θ∗ ∈ (0, 1). Last,
we discuss the knife-edge case. If η(1) is equal to the right-hand-side of (A.1) — that is,
both (A.1) and (B.22) are violated — the threshold θ∗ simply equals one and we get an
equilibrium with smooth trading, i.e., the equilibrium from the baseline.

B.6.2    Conjecturing the Equilibrium
We conjecture the following equilibrium, where the blockholder optimally trades smoothly
on the interval [0, θ∗ ) according to rate θ̇ = θ̇(θ) characterized in (17). The trading rate
can be positive or negative, as in the baseline, with θ̇(0) = 0. On [0, θ∗ ], the (scaled) value
function satisfies v(θ) = v̂(θ) and the price satisfies p(θ) = v̂ ′ (θ).
       When v̂ ′ (θ∗ ) > p̂(θ∗ ), the trading rate θ̇(θ) is positive in a left-neighborhood of θ∗ and
θ reaches θ∗ from below, in that limθ→θ∗ θ̇(θ) > 0. Once θ reaches θ∗ , the blockholder is
indifferent and randomizes between buying the entire firm at once (i.e., dθ = 1 − θ∗ ) and not
trading at all (i.e., dθ = 0). The rate at which the blockholder buys the entire is denoted
γ ∗ > 0 and will be characterized later. The state θ remains at θ∗ until the blockholder buys
the entire firm.
       When v̂ ′ (θ∗ ) ≤ p̂(θ∗ ), the blockholder trades smoothly in state θ∗ at rate θ̇(θ∗ ) ≤ 0. We
then have limθ→θ∗ θ̇(θ) ≤ 0, and θ∗ is either absorbing or θ drifts away and below θ∗ .
       The threshold θ∗ satisfies JH (θ∗ ), with θ∗ ∈ (0, 1). At θ∗ , we have v(θ∗ ) = v̂(θ∗ ) and
p(θ∗ ) = v̂ ′ (θ∗ ).
       When θ = 1, the blockholder stops trading and maintains perpetually full ownership of
the firm, with value function v(1) = v̂(1) and price p(1) = p̂(1).
       When θ ∈ (θ∗ , 1), the blockholder immediately buys the entire firm at price p̂(1), i.e.,
dθ = 1 − θ. The price equals p(θ) = p̂(1) and the value function equals v(θ) = v̂(1) − (1 −
θ)p̂(1) > v̂(θ).
       Thus, in this equilibrium, the value function is smooth and strictly convex on [0, θ∗ ) with
v̂ ′′ (θ) > 0, while the price is continuous and increasing on this interval. At θ∗ , the price
exhibits an upward jump while the value function exhibits a kink.
       For the following analysis, we recall from Appendix section A.7.1 that v(θ) = v̂(θ) on the
set S = {θ ∈ [0, 1] : θ̇ ∈ (−∞, +∞) and γ ∈ [0, ∞)}, defined analogously in (A.18).
       In this model variant, the set S is conjectured as S ∈ [0, θ∗ ] ∪ {1}—with θ∗ defined in
(B.24). For θ ̸∈ S, the blockholder finds it optimal to immediately conduct a lumpy trade,
which, without loss of generality, brings θ into the set S.

B.6.3    Optimality of the Trading Strategy
We verify the optimality of the proposed trading strategy. To do so, we show that, given the
conjectured equilibrium price, the blockholder’s scaled value function v(θ) solves the HJB
equation (A.16). If v(θ) solves the HJB equation (A.16), it follows that the proposed trading


                                          Appendix - 30
strategy is optimal, since this strategy yields payoff v(θ). To show that v(θ) solves the HJB
equation, we first need to characterize the optimal trading in different parts of the state
space under the conjectured equilibrium price p(θ) and continuation payoff v(θ). Then, one
can verify that the HJB equation holds by invoking the optimal trading strategy.
    We start with preliminary findings, and distinguish the following cases and characterize
the trading in different parts of the state space.
Result: Any Lumpy Trade must be onto the edges of S. As a lumpy trade outside
of S would be immediately followed by another lumpy trade, it is without loss of generality
to assume that a lumpy trade brings the state θ into the set S.
     In the interior of S, i.e., in int(S), we have v(θ) = v̂(θ) and p(θ) = v̂ ′ (θ). Consider state
θ and suppose to the contrary that the blockholder conducts a trade from state θ toward
state θ̂ ∈ int(S). While not trading at all yields continuation payoff v̂(θ), the trade toward
θ̂ yields continuation payoff
                                      G(θ̂) = v̂(θ̂) − (θ̂ − θ)v̂ ′ (θ̂)
Note that G(θ) = v̂(θ), equal to the payoff of not trading at all. Calculate G′ (θ̂) = −(θ̂ −
θ)v̂ ′′ (θ̂). Due to strict convexity of v̂(θ) it follows that G(θ̂) is optimized for θ̂ = θ. Thus, a
lumpy trade toward state θ̂ ∈ int(S) is strictly dominated by not trading at all. Hence, any
lumpy trade must bring θ onto the edges of S, i.e., θ̂ ∈ {0, 1, θ∗ }
State θ ∈ (θ∗ , 1). Note that v̂(1) ≤ v(1), as the blockholder always has the option not to
trade at all in state θ = 1 yielding a payoff v̂(1).
    Next, suppose to the contrary that θ̇ ∈ (−∞, ∞) and γ ∈ [0, ∞) is optimal. Then, θ ∈ S
and v(θ) = v̂(θ). But, as θ ∈ (θ∗ , 1), we have v̂(θ) < v̂(1) + (1 − θ)p̂(1) ≤ v(1) + (1 − θ)p̂(1)
and the blockholder could attain strictly higher payoff through a lumpy trade toward 1, i.e.,
dθ = 1 − θ, a contradiction. As a consequence, θ ̸∈ S.
    Thus, the blockholder conducts a lumpy trade. According to our findings above, this
lumpy trade brings θ onto the edge of S, so the blockholder trades toward θ̂ ∈ {0, 1, θ∗ }.
Trading toward θ̂ = 1 yields v(1) − (1 − θ)p̂(1) ≥ v̂(1) + (1 − θ)p̂(1). Trading toward θ̂ = θ∗
yields

      v̂(θ∗ ) + (θ − θ∗ )p(θ∗ ) = v̂(1) − (1 − θ∗ )p̂(1) + (θ − θ∗ )p(θ∗ )
                                < v̂(1) − (1 − θ∗ )p̂(1) + (θ − θ∗ )p̂(1) ≤ v(1) − (1 − θ)p̂(1),

where we have used that v̂(θ∗ ) = v̂(1) − (1 − θ∗ )p̂(1) and p(θ∗ ) < p̂(1) for θ∗ < 1. Thus,
trading toward θ̂ = 1 strictly dominates trading toward θ̂ = θ∗ .
    A trade toward 0 yields payoff p̂(0)θ < v̂(θ) and thus is strictly dominated by not trading
at all.
    In state θ ∈ (θ∗ , 1), immediately trading toward θ̂ = 1, i.e., dθ = (1 − θ), is thus strictly
optimal, delivering payoff v(θ) = v(1) − (1 − θ)p̂(1). Inserting θ̂ = 1 and γ = +∞ into
(A.16), we can see that (A.16) holds.
State θ = 1. If the blockholder conducts a lumpy trade, then this trade is toward state
θ̂ ∈ {0, θ∗ } on the edges of S. Relative to not trading and collecting payoff v̂(1), a trade




                                          Appendix - 31
toward θ∗ ∈ (0, 1) changes payoff by

               v̂(θ∗ ) + (1 − θ∗ )p(θ∗ ) − v̂(1) < v̂(θ∗ ) + (1 − θ∗ )p̂(1) − v̂(1) = 0,

where we have used that p(θ∗ ) < p̂(1) (for θ∗ < 1) and that, by definition of θ∗ , v̂(θ∗ ) + (1 −
θ∗ )p̂(1) − v̂(1) = 0 for θ∗ ∈ (0, 1).
     A trade toward θ̂ = 0 delivers payoff θp̂(0) < v̂(θ), and thus is strictly suboptimal too.
     Next, suppose to the contrary that smooth trading in state θ = 1 is optimal. Thus,
θ̇ < 0. But, as we have shown, in any state θ ∈ (θ∗ , 1), it is strictly optimal to trade
toward one. As such, smooth trading θ̇ < 0 in state θ = 1 cannot be, because it would be
immediately followed by a lumpy trade toward one. As a result, state θ = 1 is absorbing,
yielding continuation payoff v̂(1), which solves the HJB equation (A.16) under dθ = 0.
State θ ∈ [0, θ∗ ). Any lumpy trade must bring θ onto the edges of S, as shown before, i.e.,
onto {0, θ∗ , 1}. The value function on [0, θ∗ ) satisfies v(θ) = v̂(θ).
    First, a lumpy trade toward zero yields payoff θp̂(0) < v̂(θ) (for θ > 0), and thus is
strictly suboptimal.
    A lumpy trade toward θ∗ yields payoff v̂(θ∗ ) − (θ∗ − θ)v̂ ′ (θ∗ ) < v̂(θ).
    By definition of θ∗ , we have v̂(θ) > v̂(1) − (1 − θ)p̂(1) for θ ∈ [0, θ∗ ), hence a lumpy trade
toward one is strictly suboptimal too.
    This verifies that any lumpy trade in state θ ∈ [0, θ∗ ) is strictly suboptimal. Thus,
dθ
 dt
    = θ̇ ∈ (−∞, +∞) and γ = 0 are optimal, and v(θ) = v̂(θ) satisfies (A.16).
    One can verify that in state θ = 0, the blockholder stops trading, in that θ̇(0) from (17)
is zero. By our arguments, it is optimal to stop trading in state θ = 0.
State θ = θ∗ . In state θ = θ∗ , the blockholder is indifferent between not trading, yielding
payoff v̂(θ∗ ), or buying the entire firm at once, yielding payoff v̂(1) − (1 − θ∗ )p̂(1). Thus, it
is weakly optimal to randomize between these two options. This implies that it is optimal
to set θ̇ ≤ 0, as θ̇ > 0 is akin to an immediate lumpy trade. A strictly positive trading rate
θ̇ > 0 would bring θ into the region (θ∗ , 1) which would trigger an immediate lumpy trade
toward one. Thus, in state θ = θ∗ , it is optimal for the blockholder to either (i) randomize
between buying the entire firm and not trading (i.e., θ̇ = 0 and γ ∈ [0, ∞) with θ̂ = 1) or
(ii) trade smoothly at negative (finite) rate θ̇ < 0 which also delivers payoff v̂(θ∗ ). Either
way, the blockholder’s payoff in state θ∗ is v̂(θ∗ ), solving (A.16) under θ̇ = 0 and γ ≥ 0.

B.6.4    Trading Rate
We now determine trading rate and randomized trading to ensure that the conjectured price
p(θ) under the blockholder’s proposed trading is consistent with dispersed shareholders’
valuation of the firm, thereby verifying that p(θ) is the scaled equilibrium price. Recall that
the blockholder stops trading in states 0 and 1, as shown above. Further, it is strictly optimal
to trade towards 1 when θ ∈ (θ∗ , 1), i.e., dθ(θ) = (1 − θ) for θ ∈ (θ∗ , 1].
State θ ∈ [0, θ∗ ). For θ ∈ [0, θ∗ ), the optimality condition for trading (A.17) implies
v(θ) = v̂(θ) and p(θ) = v̂ ′ (θ). Furthermore, it is optimal to trade smoothly, i.e., γ = 0. We
determine the trading rate as in the baseline to obtain θ̇ from (17); see Appendix A.7.2 for
details. The trading rate is uniquely determined in this region under smooth trading.


                                           Appendix - 32
State θ = θ∗ . Consider state θ = θ∗ . When v̂ ′ (θ∗ ) < p̂(θ∗ ), then θ̇(θ) < 0 in a left-
neighborhood of θ∗ and limθ→θ∗ θ̇(θ) ≤ 0. Then, θ drifts into the interior of [0, θ∗ ] and no
time is spent in state θ∗ . In this case, the price satisfies p(θ) = v̂ ′ (θ) and θ̇(θ) satisfies
(17); there is no randomization over lumpy trading in that γ = 0. In the knife-edge case
v̂ ′ (θ∗ ) = p̂(θ∗ ), we have θ̇ = γ = 0 at θ = θ∗ .
       Next, consider that v̂ ′ (θ∗ ) > p̂(θ∗ ). Then, θ̇ = θ̇(θ) > 0 in a left-neighborhood of θ∗ ,
in that θ reaches θ∗ from below and limθ→θ∗ θ̇(θ) > 0. Because we have in addition that
θ̇ ≤ 0 at θ∗ from (B.24), it must be that θ̇ = 0 at θ∗ . By definition of θ∗ , the blockholder is
indifferent between not trading at all and buying the entire firm at once in state θ∗ . Once θ
reaches one, the endogenous stock price becomes p(1). As the blockholder stops trading once
θ reaches one, we have p(1) = p̂(1). Because p(θ) = v̂ ′ (θ) on [0, θ∗ ) and because θ reaches θ∗
from below, we have p(θ∗ ) = v̂ ′ (θ∗ ).
       At θ = θ∗ where θ̇ = 0, the randomization rate γ ∗ is such that p(θ∗ ) = v̂ ′ (θ∗ ). Here, p(θ∗ )
satisfies dispersed investors’ pricing equation:

                                                                   i(θ∗ )2
       (ρ + δ − µi(θ∗ ))p(θ∗ ) = α + b + (ρ − r)ℓ(θ∗ ) −                   + η(θ∗ ) +γ ∗ (p̂(1) − p(θ∗ )),
                                 |                {z                 2           }
                                                    =p̂(θ∗ )

                                                ∗     ∗        ∗
which can be rewritten as p(θ∗ ) = (ρ+δ−µi(θ ))p̂(θ )+γ p̂(1)
                                       ρ+δ−µi(θ∗ )+γ ∗
                                                              . As a consequence,

                                  ∗
                                       ∗           ∗
                                                        
                   [ρ +  δ − µi(θ   )] p̂(θ ) − p(θ   )
              γ∗ =
                             p(θ∗ ) − p̂(1)
                                   ∗                                         
                          1         θ λ(1 − λ)         ∗     ′ ∗            ∗
                 =                               + θ (ρ − r)ℓ (θ ) − π − η(θ ) > 0.                      (B.25)
                   p̂(1) − p(θ∗ )         κ
                                                                                         ∗
The term in square brackets is precisely      h ∗the numerator of (17) evaluated ati θ .
       Note that θ̇ > 0 for θ close to θ∗ , so θ λ(1−λ)
                                                   κ
                                                        + θ(ρ − r)ℓ′ (θ∗ ) − π − η(θ∗ ) > 0. Moreover,
p̂(θ) < p(θ) in a left-neighborhood of θ∗ , so p̂(θ∗ ) < p(θ∗ ). Because v̂(θ) is strictly convex
and v̂(θ∗ ) = v̂(1) − (1 − θ∗ )p̂(1), we have p(θ∗ ) < p̂(1). As a result, the randomization rate
γ ∗ from (B.25) is well-defined and strictly positive.
       More generally, the trading rate γ is well-defined as long as (A.1) does not hold. As
argued earlier, whenever (A.1) does not hold (in the sense of (B.22)), we have v̂ ′ (1) ≥ p̂(1),
i.e., by construction, the condition (A.1) is equivalent to v̂ ′ (1) < p̂(1) — which implies, by
v̂ ′′ (θ) > 0, that v̂ ′ (θ) < p̂(1).

B.7     Micro-Foundation of Holding Benefit
We micro-found the holding benefit and its functional form by modeling dispersed investors
as consisting of a large mass of standard dispersed investors, who value the firm solely based
on the present value of its dividends, and a unit mass of index investors, who apply the same
                                             ∗
valuation but aim to hold a fixed fraction θIndex of the firm’s equity. Neither type of investor
can short-sell the firm’s stock.
    All index investors act symmetrically, holding a fraction θt,Index of the firm. When deviat-

                                           Appendix - 33
                                                  ∗
ing from their desired ownership allocation θIndex     , index investors incur a disutility flow cost
                                                                            ∗
Kt C(θt,Index ), where C(·) is convex and differentiable, satisfying C(θIndex     ) = C ′ (θIndex
                                                                                            ∗
                                                                                                  ) = 0.
The negative of the disutility flow is a holding benefit. The disutility flow or holding benefit
scale with the firm’s capital stock. In what follows, we work with scaled quantities (by Kt ).
    Although not explicitly modeled, the interpretation is that index investors allocate a
given amount of wealth to the stock market and aim to invest in the firm in proportion to
its market weight.20 Deviating from their desired ownership level may be costly for index
investors, for example, because it reduces diversification or because these investors represent
funds or institutional investors aiming to minimize tracking error.
                                                     ∗                          ∗
    When the blockholder’s stake satisfies θt +θIndex      > 1 ⇐⇒ θt > 1−θIndex      , index investors
                                                   ∗
hold at most a fraction θt,Index ≤ 1 − θt < θIndex of the firm. Thus, they hold strictly less
                                             ∗
than their desired ownership fraction θIndex        and, accordingly, value an additional unit of
stock more than standard financial investors do, since they could reduce their disutility by
increasing their ownership stake. Thus, in equilibrium, standard dispersed investors have zero
ownership stake and index investors hold θt,Index = 1−θt , yielding a disutility of C(1−θt ) > 0
— the disutility is positive, since index investors deviate from their desired allocation. This
disutility increases in θ, in that dθd
                                       C(1 − θt ) = −C ′ (1 − θt ) > 0 and C ′ (1 − θt ) < 0.
    The blockholder trades against index investors who are marginal: A marginal reduction
in the blockholder’s stake θ, resulting in a marginal increase of index investors’ stake, changes
index investors’ cost by − dθd
                               C(1−θt ) = C ′ (1−θt ) < 0. This marginal reduction in blockholder
stake thus generates a marginal holding benefit to index investors of η(θt ) := −C ′ (1−θt ) > 0.
Hence, η(θt ) = −C ′ (1 − θt ) is the dispersed investors’ holding benefit from an additional unit
of ownership under these circumstances.
                   ∗                                ∗
    When θt + θIndex     < 1 ⇐⇒ θt < 1 − θIndex          , then index investors hold their desired
                        ∗
allocation θt,Index = θIndex  and other dispersed investors hold fraction 1 − θt − θt,Index > 0. In
this scenario, the blockholder trades against the other dispersed investors who are marginal
and adjust their holdings when θt changes, while index investors remain at their desired
allocation. Index investors’ disutility cost is zero and not affected by small changes in the
stake of the blockholder: In this case, dispersed investors derive zero marginal holding benefit
(i.e., zero disutility cost reduction) from increasing their stake, in that η(θt ) = 0.
    In sum, the holding benefit is the negative of the marginal disutility flow of dispersed
investors from deviating from their desired allocation, i.e., η(θt ) = −C ′ (1 − θt ) for θt >
       ∗
1 − θIndex , while zero otherwise. We assume quadratic disutility:

                                       πI            ∗
                         C(θt,Index ) = (θt,Index − θIndex )2       for π I > 0.
                                       2
  20
    That is, if the firm represents χt % of the stock market index (e.g., S&P 500) and index investors
                                                                             ∗
allocate Wt dollars to this stock market index, they would aim to hold θIndex         = χt % × Wt dollars in
                                                            Wt                 χt W t
the firm, corresponding to an ownership share of χt % × Pt . Assuming that Pt remains approximately
constant over time, index investors would aim for a roughly constant ownership stake in the firm. This case
prevails, for instance, when stock market capitalization equals Mt and wealth invested in the stock market
is proportional to market capitalization, i.e., Wt ∝ Mt , and the firm’s stock price is also proportional to
market capitalization, i.e., Pt ∝ Mt , we obtain χt % = MPt
                                                          t
                                                             = constant and consequently, χtPWt
                                                                                                t
                                                                                                  = constant.
                                                 χt Wt
Instead of explicitly modeling the dynamics of Pt and index investors’ investment decisions, we simplify
                                                                                           ∗
the analysis by assuming that they target a specific, constant fraction of ownership, θIndex    . Our results
                                                    ∗
would remain qualitatively similar if we allowed θIndex to vary over time.


                                             Appendix - 34
              ∗                                ∗
For θt > 1 − θIndex where θt,Index = 1 − θt < θIndex , we obtain

          C ′ (θt,Index ) = C ′ (1 − θt ) = π I (θt,Index − θIndex
                                                             ∗                        ∗
                                                                   ) = π I (1 − θt − θIndex ) < 0.

Then, holding benefit takes the functional form η(θt ) = −C ′ (1 − θt ) = π I θt − (1 − θIndex     ∗
                                                                                                     
                                                                                                     ) .
                ∗
For θt ≤ 1 − θIndex  , the holding benefit η(θt ) equals zero. Hence, the holding benefit satisfies:

                                         η(θt ) = π I [θt − θ]
                                                            e +,                                (B.26)
                                      ∗
for parameters π I > 0 and θe = 1 − θIndex ∈ [0, 1]. Here, [·]+ = max{0, ·}.
    Thus, the holding benefit reflects the demand for the stock from certain dispersed in-
vestors who are reluctant to sell beyond a certain point and thus attach a high value to the
stock, such as index investors. This holding benefit implies that when θt is large, the block-
holder must pay a high price because they are buying from investors who are reluctant to
sell and place a high valuation on the firm. When π I is sufficiently large, the blockholder will
never acquire the entire firm, although θt may become arbitrarily close to one. Acquiring the
entire firm would be hard or prohibitively costly in practice, as index investors would always
hold some of the firm’s ownership. When the blockholder buys the firm’s stock, it would
push up the price and thus increase the firm’s weight in the stock market index, further
stimulating demand from index investors, which in turn makes it harder to buy more of the
stock. Motivated by our micro-foundation, we interpret π I > 0 as sufficiently large and θe as
close to one, implying θt < 1 in equilibrium. In particular, we impose condition (A.1).




                                           Appendix - 35
