Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 
Journal of Financial Economics 
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/jfec 
Reputation and investor activism: A structural approach /p82 
Travis L. Johnson a , ∗, Nathan Swem b 
a The University of Texas at Austin, 2110 Speedway Stop B6600, Austin, TX 78756, USA 
b Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 20th Street and Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, DC 20551, USA 
a r t i c l e i n f o 
Article history: 
Received 6 March 2019 
Revised 19 August 2019 
Accepted 12 September 2019 
Available online 5 July 2020 
JEL classiﬁcation: 
G23 
G34 
G35 
Keywords: 
Investor activism 
Reputation 
Governance 
Hedge funds 
Structural estimation 
a b s t r a c t 
We measure the impact of reputation for proxy ﬁghting on investor activism by estimating 
a dynamic model in which activists engage a sequence of target ﬁrms. Our estimation pro- 
duces an evolving reputation measure for each activist and quantiﬁes its impact on cam- 
paign frequency and outcomes. We ﬁnd that high reputation activists initiate 3.5 times 
as many campaigns and extract 85% more settlements from targets, and that reputation- 
building incentives explain 20% of campaign initiations and 19% of proxy ﬁghts. Our esti- 
mates indicate these reputation effects combine to nearly double the value that activism 
adds for target shareholders. 
©2 0 2 0 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. 
1. Introduction 
Activists capture only a small fraction of the value 
they create in target ﬁrms while paying substantial pri- 
vate costs associated with rapidly acquiring shares, propos- 
ing and campaigning for desired changes in ﬁrm policy, 
/p82 We thank an anonymous referee, Vikas Agarwal [Center for the Eco- 
nomic Analysis of Risk (CEAR) discussant], Andres Almazan, Aydo ˘gan Altı, 
Audra Boone, Joseph Briggs, Jonathan Cohn, Arthur Korteweg [Ameri- 
can Financial Association (AFA) discussant] Richard Lowery, Mario Milone 
(Paris discussant), Jordan Nickerson, Eric So, Sheridan Titman, Mitch 
Towner, Toni Whited (the editor), Adam Winegar, and seminar partici- 
pants at the 2020 American Finance Association Meetings, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the 2016 Georgia State Univer- 
sity CEAR-Finance Conference, the Eighth Annual Paris Hedge Fund Re- 
search Conference, and The University of Texas at Austin for helpful sug- 
gestions. This article represents the views of the authors, and should not 
be interpreted as reﬂecting the views of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System or other members of its staff. 
∗ Corresponding author. 
E-mail addresses: travis.johnson@mccombs.utexas.edu (T.L. Johnson), 
Nathan.F.Swem@frb.gov (N. Swem). 
and potentially organizing a proxy ﬁght ( Gantchev, 2013 ). 
In a static setting, this free rider problem suggests activist 
campaigns should be rare and unsuccessful. However, em- 
pirical evidence shows campaigns are common and suc- 
cessful, with activists prevailing primarily by extracting 
settlements from target managers without a proxy ﬁght 
( Bebchuk et al., 2020; Brav et al., 2008, 2010 ). These pat- 
terns raise two related questions: why do targets settle so 
frequently with activists who face the large private costs 
of proxy ﬁghts, and why do activists initiate so many cam- 
paigns and proxy ﬁghts despite the free rider problem? 
In this paper, we show activist reputation for proxy 
ﬁghting ties together and explains both target settlement 
and costly activist aggression in a dynamic setting. We 
do so by estimating a dynamic model in which target 
managers settle more frequently with high reputation ac- 
tivists instead of risking a proxy ﬁght that has negative ca- 
reer consequences ( Fos and Tsoutsoura, 2014 ). These set- 
tlements provide incentives for activists to invest in rep- 
utation by incurring the costs of initiating campaigns and 
proxy ﬁghts. Using our estimated model, we quantify these 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jﬁneco.2020.07.005 
0304-405X/© 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. 
30 T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 
reputation effects empirically and show that they combine 
to make activism substantially more frequent and success- 
ful than it would otherwise be. 
Measuring reputation’s impact on the success of ac- 
tivism presents four main challenges. The ﬁrst is dynam- 
ically quantifying reputation in a way that appropriately 
reﬂects all information in each activist’s track record, in- 
cluding the frequency and outcomes of past campaigns. 
The second challenge is specifying the form of reputation’s 
impact on observed campaign outcomes, which emerge 
from a non linear equilibrium. The third challenge is as- 
sessing how much of activists’ observed behavior is driven 
by static cost concerns versus dynamic reputation build- 
ing, which requires estimates of activists’ unobserved costs. 
The fourth challenge is measuring how successful activism 
would be in a counterfactual world without reputation, 
which requires estimates of no-reputation equilibrium be- 
havior. 
We address these challenges by solving and estimat- 
ing a dynamic economic model that produces an evolving 
reputation measure for each activist in our sample, pre- 
dicts how this measure relates to the frequency and out- 
comes of activist campaigns, allows us to estimate the ex- 
tent of reputation-building behavior, and generates a no- 
reputation counterfactual. Our structural approach also en- 
sures consistency between each facet of our analysis by us- 
ing a single parsimonious set of parameters to construct 
our reputation measure and specify how it affects equilib- 
rium behavior and outcomes. 
Activists in our model engage a series of potential tar- 
get ﬁrms in a game having up to three stages. First, the 
activist decides whether to initiate a campaign, which en- 
tails a private cost encompassing the price impact associ- 
ated with buying shares in the target, the effort and ex- 
pense related to communications with targets and regu- 
lators, and any other expenses prior to a proxy ﬁght (see 
Gantchev, 2013 ). If the activist initiates a campaign, target 
managers then decide whether to settle by undertaking a 
project that has positive value for shareholders but nega- 
tive net value for them due to private costs. If target man- 
agers settle, the campaign ends and they pay the net pri- 
vate cost of the project, while the activist beneﬁts from the 
project increasing the target’s share price. If target man- 
agers refuse to settle, the activist then decides whether to 
initiate a proxy ﬁght. If they do, the project occurs and 
both parties receive the same payoff they get from a settle- 
ment but with an additional proxy ﬁght cost. If the activist 
does not initiate a proxy ﬁght, the engagement ends with 
no effect on target managers and the activist paying only 
the campaign initiation cost. 
Reputation arises in our model because targets do not 
know the activist’s average cost of proxy ﬁghting (their 
type) and instead estimate it from behavior in past cam- 
paigns. There are two types of activists, aggressive types 
with lower average costs of proxy ﬁghts and cautious types 
with higher average costs. These costs encompass the ﬁ- 
nancial and non ﬁnancial costs of ﬁghting, net of any non 
ﬁnancial beneﬁts such as enjoying conﬂict and attention. 
Consistent with the importance of non ﬁnancial beneﬁts to 
aggressive types, activists often make statements advertis- 
ing their low subjective cost of proxy ﬁghts. For example, 
activist investor Carl Icahn said, “I enjoy the hunt much 
more than the ‘good life’ after the victory.”
A key variable affecting each stage of the activism game 
is the activist’s reputation, deﬁned as the probability the 
activist is the aggressive type conditional on previous cam- 
paigns (as in Kreps and Wilson, 1982 and Milgrom and 
Roberts, 1982 ). Higher reputation activists initiate more 
campaigns in the ﬁrst stage because targets, fearing a 
costly proxy ﬁght, settle more frequently with higher rep- 
utation activists in the second stage. Because activists an- 
ticipate these additional settlements in future stage games, 
they value higher reputations. Activists therefore have an 
added incentive to initiate campaigns and proxy ﬁghts, 
even when they are not proﬁtable in a single campaign, 
as an investment in reputation. 
We estimate our model using maximum likelihood by 
choosing the parameters which result in an equilibrium 
that best explains the observed data from a panel of 2434 
activist campaigns by hedge funds between 1999 and 2016. 
Our model yields predictions for the likelihood of cam- 
paign initiations, target stock reactions to campaign an- 
nouncements, and likelihood of proxy ﬁghts, all of which 
we observe directly using Securities and Exchange Com- 
mission (SEC) ﬁlings, SharkWatch, and the Center for Re- 
search in Securities Pricies (CRSP). Our model also yields 
predictions for the likelihood of settlements, which we in- 
fer from target ﬁrm reorganizations, payout increases, chief 
executive oﬃcer (CEO) changes, board changes, and merg- 
ers and acquisitions (M&A) observed in Compustat and 
Capital IQ. 1 These data allow us to identify model param- 
eters using maximum likelihood based on the functional 
form of relations between activists’ past and future and 
campaign frequency and outcomes. 2 
Using our estimated model parameters, we quantify 
reputation’s role in each stage of our activism game. In 
the ﬁrst stage, we ﬁnd high reputation activists initiate 3.5 
campaigns per year, compared to only 0.6 for low repu- 
tation activists. 3 Moreover, 20% of campaigns are initiated 
despite not being proﬁtable in isolation due to the beneﬁts 
of reputation. In the second stage, targets settle with high 
reputation activists 44% of the time, compared to 29% for 
low reputation activists. In the third stage, high reputation 
activists ﬁght 26% of the time when refused, compared to 
14% for low reputation activists, and 19% of ﬁghts are ini- 
tiated despite not being proﬁtable in isolation due to the 
beneﬁts of reputation. 
We formally test and reject a no-reputation version 
of our model in which targets do not consider the ac- 
tivist’s history. With this constraint, all campaigns fea- 
ture the same equilibrium strategies and independent and 
identically distributed (i.i.d.) outcomes. We ﬁnd that this 
1 Unfortunately, as we discuss in Section 4.1 , SharkWatch and other 
data providers have no comprehensive classiﬁcation for whether a cam- 
paign was settled, forcing empirical research on settlements (e.g., in 
Bebchuk et al., 2020 ) to estimate whether a speciﬁc campaign was set- 
tled using data from multiple sources. 
2 Our estimated reputation measure for campaigns in our sample are 
available on Travis Johnson’s website ( http://travislakejohnson.com ). 
3 For these statistics, a low reputation activist has probability less than 
0.5% of being the aggressive type and a high reputation activist has prob- 
ability above 50%. 
T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 31 
alternative model ﬁts the data signiﬁcantly worse than our 
baseline model because campaign frequency and outcomes 
are highly correlated with our reputation estimates and 
therefore are not i.i.d. A potential alternative explanation 
for the non-i.i.d. campaign outcomes is that targets directly 
observe the activist’s type, making campaign outcomes 
depend on static type but not dynamic reputation. We 
also reject this full-information version of our model us- 
ing a likelihood-ratio test. While our reputation model and 
the full-information alternative ﬁt the data similarly well 
along many dimensions, our reputation model better ﬁts 
the relations between within-activist changes in reputa- 
tion and within-activist changes in the frequency and out- 
comes of their campaigns, both of which are signiﬁcantly 
larger in the data than the full-information alternative 
predicts. 
Having established the importance of reputation in ex- 
plaining observed equilibrium behavior, we next consider 
how equilibrium behavior would change in a counter- 
factual world without reputation. We do so by retaining 
our baseline parameter estimates but generating a new 
equilibrium in which targets do not condition on the ac- 
tivist’s past behavior. We ﬁnd that activism produces many 
fewer successful campaigns in this no-reputation counter- 
factual for three related reasons. First, because activists 
have no reputation-building incentives, they initiate fewer 
campaigns in the counterfactual (6% of opportunities) than 
in our baseline model (9%). Similarly, without reputation- 
building incentives, activists ﬁght less frequently (12% of 
the campaigns in which the target does not settle) than 
in our baseline model (17%). Anticipating the lower risk of 
a proxy ﬁght, targets settle less frequently (24% of cam- 
paigns) than in our baseline model (27%). Combining these 
effects, we estimate target shareholders’ average payoff
would be 48% lower without reputation. 
We further illustrate the magnitude of our empirical 
ﬁndings and the quality of our model’s ﬁt using linear re- 
gressions of campaign outcomes on our model-based rep- 
utation measure. We ﬁnd reputation signiﬁcantly predicts 
the frequency of campaigns, activist-friendly actions by tar- 
get ﬁrms, instances of proxy ﬁghts, and abnormal target 
stock returns around campaign announcements. The mag- 
nitudes of these empirical relations are very close to the 
magnitudes predicted by our estimated model for cam- 
paign frequency and target actions, suggesting our esti- 
mated model ﬁts well along those dimensions. The model 
ﬁts less well in predicting the frequency of proxy ﬁghts, 
which is more sensitive to reputation in the data than 
in our estimated model. We also ﬁnd that while three- 
day target returns around campaign announcements are 
somewhat less sensitive to reputation than our model pre- 
dicts, this relation strengthens when using larger return 
windows. Finally, we show that within-activist variation in 
reputation predicts within-activist differences in campaign 
frequency and target actions more positively than is pre- 
dicted by the no-reputation and full-information null hy- 
potheses. Within-activist relations between reputation and 
target actions in non-proxy campaigns, target announce- 
ment returns, and proxy ﬁghts are too noisy to reject ei- 
ther our reputation model or the alternative models at the 
5% level. 
Our reduced-form tests also allow us to assess how our 
model-based reputation measure relates to campaign fre- 
quency and outcomes while controlling for variables out- 
side of our model. We ﬁnd that our reputation measure is 
incremental to other time-varying activist characteristics, 
including measures of experience and reputation adapted 
from Boyson et al. (2016) and Krishnan et al. (2016) , re- 
spectively. 
2. Related literature 
We add a unique perspective to the theoretical litera- 
ture on investor activism by studying multiple sequential 
campaigns with asymmetric information about activists’ 
cost of ﬁghting. The existing literature focuses on a large 
shareholder of a single ﬁrm (examples include Burkart 
et al., 1997; Maug, 1998; Aghion et al., 2004; Admati and 
Pﬂeiderer, 2009; Back et al., 2018 ). In this literature, large 
shareholders are effective activists because their position 
sizes reduce the free rider problem. Levit (2018) extends 
the literature by examining communication and exit as al- 
ternate channels to avoid costly proxy ﬁghts. Corum and 
Levit (2019) studies the role of activists in facilitating 
takeovers, and Corum (2018) models demands and settle- 
ments in a setting with asymmetric information about the 
value of the project. 
Our analysis supports and extends an ongoing 
empirical literature on investor activism, as sur- 
veyed in Brav et al. (2010) and Denes et al. (2017) , 
by using a structural approach to study repu- 
tation for proxy ﬁghting. 4 Two related papers, 
Krishnan et al. (2016) and Boyson et al. (2016) , examine 
activist hedge fund reputation and experience empirically. 
Krishnan et al. (2016) ﬁnds that short-term stock returns 
and long-term ﬁrm performance are both stronger follow- 
ing interventions by hedge funds with higher dollar values 
of recent activist positions. Boyson et al. (2016) shows that 
activists with more experience produce larger announce- 
ment returns and better long-term target performance. 
Bebchuk et al. (2020) ﬁnds that settlements often con- 
sist of board seats rather than direct corporate policy 
changes, can be formal legal contracts but are often in- 
formal understandings, and are related to activists’ ability 
to credibly threaten a proxy ﬁght. We formally model this 
credibility as arising in a dynamic reputation model, assess 
its impact using a structural estimation, and use activist- 
friendly actions to capture both formal and informal set- 
tlements. 
The closest activism paper in methodology is 
Gantchev (2013) , which estimates the net cost to ac- 
tivists in four stages of a campaign. Because the goal of 
the Gantchev (2013) model is to estimate these costs, 
while the goal of our model is to assess the role of 
reputation in the dynamic interaction between activists 
and their targets, the two models differ in important 
4 Recent work shows activism is effective internationally ( Becht et al., 
2017 ); is facilitated by passive investors ( Appel et al., 2018 ); improves tar- 
gets’ productive eﬃciency ( Brav et al., 2015 ), governance ( Gantchev et al., 
2019 ), and innovation ( Brav et al., 2018 ); and increases the likelihood of 
mergers ( Boyson et al., 2017 ). 
32 T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 
ways. Gantchev (2013) estimates a statistical sequential 
decision model featuring a single campaign. We estimate 
an economic model with a strategic equilibrium featuring 
multiple campaigns, allowing us to quantify dynamic 
reputation effects. 
Our methodology is similar to other structural estima- 
tion papers in corporate ﬁnance, which use the variety of 
procedures summarized in Strebulaev and Whited (2012) . 
Simulated method of moments (SMM) is the most com- 
mon, employed recently in Nikolov and Whited (2014) , 
Dimopoulos and Sacchetto (2014) , Schroth et al. (2014) , 
Warusawitharana (2015) , and Glover (2016) , among others. 
As discussed in Section 4 , we use a maximum likelihood 
estimation (MLE), which is similar to the simulated maxi- 
mum likelihood approach in Morellec et al. (2012) . Com- 
pared to SMM, MLE has the advantage of using the full 
functional form of relations in the model for identiﬁcation, 
avoiding subjective choices of moments and making it ef- 
ﬁcient from a statistical perspective. SMM has the advan- 
tages of not forcing the model to ﬁt every moment and not 
requiring a closed-form solution for the likelihood func- 
tion. We use MLE because we have a closed-form solution 
and a rich enough model to ﬁt the distribution of observed 
data in our setting. 
3. Model 
Our model adapts the canonical reputation frame- 
work with one long-lived player of unknown type and 
many short-lived players to investor activism. This 
framework originated in Kreps and Wilson (1982) and 
Milgrom and Roberts (1982) , which study the chain-store 
stage game, and was generalized to other stage games 
in Fudenberg and Levine (1989) and Fudenberg and 
Levine (1992) . This reputation concept has been 
applied to many settings in ﬁnance (e.g., debt is- 
suance in Diamond, 1989 and investment banking in 
Chemmanur and Fulghieri, 1994 ), but, to our knowledge, 
we are the ﬁrst to apply it to investor activism. 
3.1. Stage game 
The core of our model is an activist campaign op- 
portunity in which an activist A and a manager M , each 
risk-neutral, engage in the stage game summarized by 
Model Fig. 1 . 
M controls a ﬁrm with access to a project that would 
generate an average return for shareholders of /Delta1> 0. M 
does not take the project without intervention by A be- 
cause it entails private cost B > /Delta1. We scale all payoffs for 
both A and M into units of returns, so they each receive 
gross payoff of /Delta1if the project occurs. For M , this implies 
all payoffs are in units of the ﬁrm’s initial market value 
and B can be interpreted as the stock return that would 
make M indifferent to taking the project. For A , this im- 
plies that all payoffs are in units of itheir initial investment 
in the target ﬁrm. 
In each stage game, A moves ﬁrst and decides whether 
to initiate a campaign by purchasing shares in the target 
ﬁrm and ﬁling a 13-D ( 13-D ) or to ignore the opportunity 
( Ignore ). If A chooses Ignore , the game ends and each party 
Model Fig. 1. Stage game tree. Each stage game takes the form depicted 
by this ﬁgure. Nodes marked with A are decisions made by the activist, 
nodes marked with M are decisions made by the target manager. Payoffs 
are for the activist and manager are presented in brackets for each possi- 
ble outcome. 
gets a payoff of zero. If A chooses 13-D , they incur the costs 
˜ L > 0 of an activist campaign. Campaign costs include the 
round trip liquidity costs of buying and selling shares, as 
well as the effort and expense related to regulatory docu- 
ment submissions, communications with target managers, 
and fundamental research analysis (see Brav et al., 2008, 
Gantchev, 2013 , and Back et al., 2018 ). 
Filing a 13-D represents a threat to force M to enact the 
project via a proxy ﬁght. Prior to a proxy ﬁght, M decides 
whether to refuse A ’s demands ( Refuse ) or settle ( Settle ), in 
which case they undertake the project and the game ends, 
making the payoffs 
[ /Pi1A, Settle , /Pi1M, Settle ] = 
[/Delta1− ˜ L , /Delta1− B 
]
. (1) 
If M refuses, A decides whether or not to initiate a 
proxy ﬁght ( Fight or Fold ). We assume proxy ﬁghts are al- 
ways successful and therefore result in ﬁrm value increas- 
ing by /Delta1. 5 Proxy ﬁghts also have private costs for both A 
( ˜ F A > 0 ) and M ( ˜ F M > 0 ). These costs include legal, account- 
ing, and administrative expenses for both parties, as well 
as a negative effect on target manager’s career prospects 
( Bebchuk et al., 2020; Fos and Tsoutsoura, 2014; Gow et al., 
2014 ). Therefore, if A chooses Fight , the payoffs are 
[/Pi1A, Fight , /Pi1M, Fight 
]
= 
[/Delta1− ˜ L − ˜ F A , /Delta1− B − ˜ F M 
]
. (2) 
If A chooses Fold, M ignores the project and the payoffs 
are 
[ /Pi1A, Fold , /Pi1M, Fold ] = 
[
−˜ L , 0 
]
. (3) 
To assure each outcome occurs with positive proba- 
bility in equilibrium and avoid the empirically implausi- 
ble pooling equilibrium in Kreps and Wilson (1982) and 
Milgrom and Roberts (1982) , we allow costs to vary from 
campaign to campaign, perhaps because they are target- or 
interaction-speciﬁc, according to 
lo g( ˜ L ) ∼ N 
(μL , τ−2 
L 
)
, (4) 
lo g 
( ˜ F M 
B − /Delta1
)
∼ N 
(μM , τ−2 
M 
)
, (5) 
and lo g( ˜ F A ) ∼ N 
(μA , τ−2 
A 
)
. (6) 
5 In Online Appendix E, we show that our results are robust to a frac- 
tion φ < 1 of proxy ﬁghts succeeding. 
T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 33 
The cost ˜ F M is scaled by B − /Delta1because, as detailed below, 
the equilibrium depends only on the ratio 
/Pi1M, Fight 
/Pi1M, Settle and not 
on the level of /Pi1M, Settle . 
Activists differ only by their μA , which takes one of 
two values: μagr < μcaut . 6 When A has μA = μagr , they are 
more likely to ﬁght and we therefore refer to them as the 
aggressive type; when A has μA = μcaut , we refer to them 
as the cautious type. Aggressive A could have lower aver- 
age costs associated with proxy ﬁghts because they have 
more of the knowledge and experience necessary to initi- 
ate a successful ﬁght. Alternatively, they can be interpreted 
as intrinsically enjoying the attendant conﬂict and atten- 
tion. 
The key information asymmetry in the model is that 
A knows their type and but M does not and has to esti- 
mate it from A ’s past behavior. A learns the realization of 
˜ L before choosing 13-D or Ignore , and learns the realiza- 
tion of ˜ F A only after choosing 13-D. M learns the realization 
of ˜ F M prior to deciding whether to choose Settle. A knows 
the distribution of ˜ F M but not its realization. Similarly, M 
only knows the distribution of ˜ L and ˜ F A . All other parame- 
ters, including /Delta1and B , are common knowledge and ﬁxed 
across campaigns. 7 
3.2. Dynamics 
Campaign opportunities arrive exogenously according 
to a Poisson process with an annualized arrival rate λc , 
which we assume is the same for all activists. 8 Upon re- 
ceiving a campaign opportunity, the above stage game is 
played instantly. When playing each stage game, A maxi- 
mizes their expected payoffs across the current and all fu- 
ture campaign opportunities, using an annual discount fac- 
tor δ. Each M is targeted only once, and so simply maxi- 
mizes their expected payoffs in the current campaign. 
The only state variable in the model is A ’s reputation 
r t , deﬁned as the probability that A is the aggressive type 
conditional on their observed track record of campaigns 
occurring prior to t. A ’s initial reputation is r 0 , the exoge- 
nous unconditional probability they are aggressive. It sub- 
sequently evolves as time passes and new campaign op- 
portunities arrive. 
We assume M does not observe the true outcome of 
past campaigns by A but instead only observes the same 
imperfect indicators we see as econometricians. This ap- 
proach closely connects our model to the data because, for 
a given parameterization, the r t we compute empirically is 
the true model r t . If instead we assume that M can ob- 
serve the true outcomes of past activist campaigns, true 
6 Another possible difference between types of activists is in their idea 
quality, which would result in /Delta1varying across activists. As we detail in 
Online Appendix B, measures of activist-speciﬁc idea quality are less per- 
sistent and worse predictors of future campaign success than measures 
of aggressiveness, suggesting that /Delta1does not vary substantially across 
activists. 
7 In Online Appendix E, we show that allowing /Delta1to vary randomly 
across campaigns affects some parameter estimates, particularly for the 
precision of ˜ L , but not our estimates of the overall impact of reputation. 
8 This assumption and the assumption that campaign costs have the 
same distribution for both types are important because they focus our 
model on one-dimensional reputation for proxy ﬁghting. 
Model Table 1 
Outcomes observed by future targets. This table summarizes what M 
observes about past campaigns by A . Observed outcomes are indicator 
variables 13-D , which equals one on activist-days when a campaign is 
initiated; Proxy , which equals one when the campaign outcome is Fight ; 
and a set of ﬁve a i , each equal to one if the target takes action i . The 
table provides the values of 13-D and Proxy , as well as the probability 
a i = 1 ( P (a i = 1) ), all of which depend on the true outcome on each 
activist-day. Dashes indicate the outcome is not observed. True out- 
comes can be no campaign opportunity ( No opportunity ), or a campaign 
opportunity that ends with Ingore, Fold Settle , or Fight , as described in 
Section 3.1 . 
Observed outcomes 
True outcome 13-D Proxy P (a i = 1) 
No opportunity 0 ––
Ignore 0 ––
Fold 1 0 ˆ a i 
Settle 1 0 ˆ a i + βi 
Fight 1 1 ˆ a i + βi 
r t would become unobservable to us as econometricians 
and we would need to estimate an evolving distribution 
of possible r t for each A instead of just a single time se- 
ries, greatly complicating estimation. Furthermore, we ar- 
gue some degree of noise in M ’s observation of past cam- 
paign outcomes is realistic. 
M faces two main data limitations, summarized by 
Model Table 1 and motivated empirically in Section 4.1 . 
First, they do not observe campaign opportunities A 
chooses to ignore, instead only observing an indicator ( 13- 
D ) that equals one when a campaign was initiated on each 
activist-day. As a result, when 13-D = 0 , future M are not 
sure whether no opportunity arrived or one arrived and 
the activist chose Ignore . Second, while M can directly ob- 
serve campaigns ending in a Fight using indicator variable 
Proxy , they do not perfectly observe whether non-proxy 
campaigns ended with Settle or Ignore . Observing long-run 
target stock returns does not perfectly reveal whether a 
campaign was settled because /Delta1is the average return and 
not the realized return in every successful campaign. In- 
stead, M uses a vector of binary observable actions by the 
target, denoted a , that are correlated with campaign suc- 
cess in the following way: 
P (a i = 1) = ˆ a i + 1 ( Settle or Fight ) βi , (7) 
where a i is the i th action in vector a , ˆ a i is its predicted 
value in the absence of activism, and βi is the added prob- 
ability of action i during a campaign ending in Settle or 
Fight . We detail the a i we use in Section 4.1 , and our cali- 
bration of ˆ a i and βi in Section 4.3 . 
Using the indicators 13-D, Proxy , and a , we can solve for 
the evolution of r t both between and following observed 
campaigns using Bayes’ rule. After an observed campaign, 
A ’s reputation updates to the posterior r t+ : 
r t+ = 
{
P ( μA = μagr | a , r t , P roxy = 0 ) if P roxy = 0 
P ( μA = μagr | r t , Fight ) if P roxy = 1 . 
(8) 
Between campaigns, r t evolves continuously for two rea- 
sons. First, the absence of campaigns indicates that a cam- 
paign opportunity could have arrived but A chose Ignore . 
Because a cautious A is more likely to choose Ignore, r t de- 
cays with each passing moment as it is increasingly likely 
34 T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 
A ignored an opportunity. Second, a chance exists that A 
will have a change in fund management or investment 
strategy that results in their type being re-drawn from the 
unconditional distribution. These type resets arrive accord- 
ing to a Poisson process with an annualized arrival rate λr 
and are observed by A but not by M . We include them in 
our model because they cause r t to revert toward r 0 , al- 
lowing learning in the model to continue indeﬁnitely in- 
stead of r t converging to zero or one. When estimating our 
model, we ﬁnd that λr > 0 ﬁts the data signiﬁcantly better 
than λr = 0 , meaning these type of resets seem to occur in 
the data. 9 See Appendix A for the relevant formulas. 
Because A knows that r t affects expected payoffs condi- 
tional on receiving a campaign opportunity, they internal- 
ize the impact of their decisions on future r t . We quantify 
this impact using their value function, deﬁned as the ex- 
pected discounted payoff they will get from all future cam- 
paigns conditional on r t . We write this value function as 
V caut ( r ) for cautious A and V agr ( r ) for aggressive A , where 
V i (r) ≡
∫ ∞  
0 
δs λc E ( /Pi1i (r t+ s ) | r t = r, μA = μi ) ds (9) 
and E ( /Pi1i (r t+ s ) | r t = r, μA = μi ) is the expected payoff to 
an A of type i for campaign opportunities at time t + s 
given r t = r. 
3.3. Equilibrium 
The stage game equilibrium is speciﬁed by ﬁve func- 
tions of r t : the probabilities that cautious A and ag- 
gressive A choose 13-D when a campaign opportunity 
arises [ d caut ( r t ) and d agr ( r t ), respectively], the probability 
M chooses Settle [ y ( r t )], and the probabilities that cautious 
and aggressive A choose Fight [ f caut ( r t ) and f agr ( r t ), respec- 
tively]. 
We solve the stage game equilibrium starting with A ’s 
decision to choose Fight or Fold once M chooses Refuse. A of 
type i chooses Fight whenever the payoffs from the project 
and increased reputation outweigh the cost ˜ F A : 
˜ F A ≤ /Delta1+ V i (r t+ | Fight ) − E [ V i (r t+ ) | Fold ] ≡ F i , (10) 
where r t+ is A ’s post-campaign reputation and the ex- 
pected value is taken across possible r t+ that can result 
from different draws of a conditional on the true campaign 
outcome being Fold . No uncertainty exists about r t+ when 
the true outcome is Fight because future targets can di- 
rectly observe this outcome. Type i ’s probability of ﬁghting 
therefore satisﬁes 
f i (r t ) = /Phi1(τ−1 
A 
(
log 
(
F i 
)
− μi 
))
, (11) 
where /Phi1( · ) is the cumulative density function of the stan- 
dard normal distribution. 
M chooses Settle when p f ( r t ), the probability A ﬁghts 
given r t and equilibrium strategies, is suﬃciently high 
9 Events affecting activists in our sample consistent with type re-draws 
include Riley Investment Management’s 2009 initial public offering (IPO) 
and Ramius Capital merging with the Cowen Group in 2009. 
relative to their cost of ﬁghting: 
/Delta1− B    
/Pi1m, Settle 
≤ (/Delta1− B − ˜ F M ) 
   
/Pi1m, Fight 
p f (r t ) ⇒  
˜ F M 
B − /Delta1≥ 1 − p f (r t ) 
p f ( r t ) 
≡ F M , 
(12) 
where p f ( r t ) is a function of d i ( r t ), y ( r t ), and f i ( r t ) given in 
Appendix A . 
Eq. (12) shows that M ’s decision depends on ˜ F M relative 
to B − /Delta1. We therefore estimate the properties of 
˜ F M 
B −/Delta1, pa- 
rameterized by μM and τM , but have no way of separating 
˜ F M and B − /Delta1. Eq. (12) implies M ’s probability of settling 
satisﬁes 
y (r t ) = 1 − /Phi1(τ−1 
M 
(
log 
(
F M 
)
− μM 
))
. (13) 
Finally, A chooses 13-D when the expected payoffs from 
the campaign and jump in value function outweigh the 
cost ˜ L : 
˜ L ≤− V i (r t ) + y (r t ) ( /Delta1+ E [ V i (r t+ ) | Settle ] ) 
+ (1 − y (r t )) f i (r t ) 
(/Delta1+ V i (r t+ | Fight ) − E 
[˜ F i | ˜ F i < F i 
])
+ (1 − y (r t ))(1 − f i (r t )) E [ V i (r t+ ) | Fold ] ≡ L i . (14) 
Eq. (14) implies that the type i ’s probability of choosing 
13-D satisﬁes 
d i (r t ) = /Phi1(τ−1 
L 
(
log 
(
L i 
)
− μL 
))
. (15) 
For a given set of parameters, we solve equilibrium 
strategies and value functions using value function itera- 
tion, as detailed in Appendix A . 
3.4. No-reputation alternative model 
We consider, as a benchmark for testing hypotheses and 
evaluating counterfactuals, an alternative model with the 
same stage game but no role for reputation. In this alter- 
native model, M ignores A ’s track record and assesses the 
probability that A is the aggressive type as r 0 . With this 
restriction, the equilibrium is not the same as the equilib- 
rium in our dynamic model when r t = r 0 because the pos- 
sibility of changing r t affects equilibrium behavior. Without 
this possibility, each stage game follows the same static 
equilibrium. 
Writing d s 
i , y s , and f c 
i for the equilibrium strategies in a 
one-shot stage game, we simplify the cutoff values L i and 
F i to 
L 
s 
i ≡ y s /Delta1+ (1 − y s ) f s 
i 
(
/Delta1− E 
[ 
˜ F i | ˜ F i < F 
s 
i 
] )
(16) 
and F 
s 
i ≡ /Delta1. (17) 
Based on these cutoffs, we compute the static equilibrium 
strategies that make Eqs. (11) , (13) , and (15) all hold when 
using L 
s 
i and F 
s 
i in place of L i and F i . 
3.5. Model predictions 
We illustrate the key predictions of our model with and 
without reputation in Fig. 1 . For the static model, we il- 
lustrate how the exogenous likelihood A is aggressive ( r 0 ) 
affects equilibrium outcomes. Panel A of Fig. 1 shows both 
T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 35 
Fig. 1. Estimated Equilibrium . We plot equilibrium properties of our 
model using estimated parameters. Panel A shows the probability the ac- 
tivist chooses 13-D . Panel B shows the probability the target chooses Set- 
tle . Panel C shows the probability the activist chooses Fight . Panel D shows 
each type of activists’ value function. Panel E shows post-campaign repu- 
tation r t+ conditional on each possible campaign outcome. For Settle and 
Fold outcomes, we plot expected r t+ across possible realizations of a . All 
ﬁve plots are a function of pre-campaign reputation r t for the dynamic 
equilibrium and unconditional reputation r 0 for the static equilibrium. 
Subscripts agr and caut indicate strategies for aggressive and cautious ac- 
tivists, respectively. 
types of A have higher likelihood of choosing 13-D ( d s 
caut 
and d s 
agr ) when r 0 is higher because they are more likely 
to receive proﬁtable settlements (higher y s ), as illustrated 
by Panel B. Panel C shows that r 0 has no impact on ei- 
ther type of A ’s probability of ﬁghting ( f s 
caut or f s 
agr ) be- 
cause their decision has no impact on future campaigns in 
the static model. 
The dynamic model carries through the predictions of 
the static model but adds two further implications. First, 
both types of A initiate more proxy ﬁghts than they do 
in the static model ( f caut > f s 
caut and f agr > f s 
agr ). These ad- 
ditional ﬁghts arise when a proxy ﬁght’s cost ˜ F A is more 
than the direct payoff /Delta1but is justiﬁed by the expected 
increase in future project payoffs. In this sense, A invests 
in their reputation by initiating additional proxy ﬁghts at 
short-term losses to extract more settlements in future 
campaigns. Second, both types of A initiate more cam- 
paigns than they do in the static model ( d caut > d s 
caut and 
d agr > d s 
agr ). Because aggressive A are more likely to choose 
13-D than cautious A , campaigns on average increase r t . 
Choosing 13-D is therefore another way A can invest in 
reputation by acting aggressively. 
The extent of A ’s reputation-building incentives de- 
pends on the slope of the value function and the degree to 
which A expects r t to change after each potential outcome. 
We illustrate these effects in Panels D and E of Fig. 1 . For 
this parameterization, proxy ﬁghts substantially increase 
r t , settlements moderately increase expected r t , and folds 
slightly increase or decrease expected r t depending on pre- 
campaign r t . 10 Panel E shows the value function is much 
steeper for aggressive A when r t is low because building 
and maintaining their reputation in the future is cheaper. 
As a result, an aggressive A increases their probability of 
ﬁghting more than cautious A for small values of r t . As r t 
approaches one, this relation reverses as r t increases be- 
come more valuable for cautious A because it reduces the 
necessity of expensive reputation maintenance. 
To summarize, the mechanisms by which reputation af- 
fects activism in our model are: 
1. High reputation activists initiate more campaigns, and 
all activists sometimes initiate campaigns despite ex- 
pected losses as an investment in their reputation; 
2. Target managers are more likely to settle with high rep- 
utation activists; and 
3. High reputation activists initiate more proxy ﬁghts 
when refused, and all activists sometimes ﬁght despite 
expected losses as an investment in their reputation. 
3.6. Identiﬁcation in the model 
In this section, we describe the comparative statics and 
empirical predictions that allow us to identify our model’s 
parameters using observable campaign outcomes. Model 
parameters are not directly estimable because the realiza- 
tions of random campaign and proxy ﬁght costs ( ˜ L , ˜ F M , and 
˜ F A ) and each activist’s evolving reputation ( r t ) are not ob- 
servable. Instead, we observe a panel of activist campaigns 
10 Fig. 1 plots expected r t+ after Settle and Fold outcomes across possible 
realizations of a . 
36 T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 
Model Table 2 
Parameters governing random costs in the model and estimation. This table summarizes the 
parameters governing random costs in our model. Random variables have a tilde, and parame- 
ters we estimate empirically are boxed. Given other model parameters, the mapped parameters 
are a one-to-one function of the means μ, as speciﬁed in Appendix D.2 . 
Log distribution 
Random cost Notation Mean Precision Mapped parameter 
A campaign cost ˜ L μL τL d caut, 0 = P ( 13-D | r t = 0 , μL ) 
M relative ﬁght cost 
˜ F M 
B −/Delta1 μM τM y 0 = P ( Settle | r t = 0 , μM ) 
Cautious A ﬁght cost ˜ F A μcaut τA f caut, 0 = P ( Fight | r t = 0 , μcaut ) 
Aggressive A ﬁght cost ˜ F A μagr τA f agr, 0 = P ( Fight | r t = 0 , μagr ) 
including the variables outlined in Model Table 1 ( 13-D, 
Proxy , and a ) as well as the target’s stock return upon cam- 
paign announcement ( CAR ), as detailed in Section 4.1 . 
We can identify our model’s parameters using a panel 
of observable campaign outcomes because each parameter 
has a distinct impact on the model’s predictions for how 
the frequency and outcomes of A ’s campaigns depend on 
A ’s track record. This dependence occurs due to reputation 
because A ’s history determines their r t , which in turn de- 
termines the observable frequency and outcomes of future 
campaigns. For example, A initiates more campaigns when 
they have a recent history of proxy ﬁghts because those 
ﬁghts increased their r t . Because our model speciﬁes the 
functional forms for this and other relations between past 
and future campaigns, we can estimate the model using 
maximum likelihood by ﬁnding the parameters that best 
match model-predicted relations to observed empirical re- 
lations. 
The identiﬁcation requirement for maximum likelihood 
estimation is that a unique parameterization maximizes 
the likelihood of observed data. In this section, we demon- 
strate how our model satisﬁes this condition by showing 
each parameter’s unique impact on the predicted likeli- 
hood of observable outcomes. To do so, we ﬁrst provide 
economic intuition for the effects of changing each param- 
eter using plots of A and M ’s equilibrium strategies ( Fig. 2 ). 
We then translate these comparative statics to empirical 
predictions for how each parameter affects the likelihoods 
of observable outcomes ( Fig. 3 ). 11 
Instead of presenting estimates of the means of log 
costs ( μL , μM , μcaut , and μagr ), which are diﬃcult to in- 
terpret, we map these means to probabilities expressing 
what they imply for equilibrium strategies when r t = 0 , as 
summarized by Model Table 2 . We deﬁne d caut ,0 , y 0 , f caut ,0 , 
and f agr ,0 as the probabilities a cautious A chooses 13-D, M 
chooses Settle , a cautious A chooses Fight , and an aggres- 
sive A chooses Fight , respectively, given r t = 0 . With r t = 0 , 
reputation is irrelevant and a one-to-one mapping exists 
between these four probabilities and the corresponding μ
(see D.2 ). This mapping has no effect on the economics of 
11 Changing any parameter affects equilibrium strategies at all three 
stages of the activism game and therefore all predicted likelihoods. For 
brevity, Figs. 2 and 3 illustrate only the key distinct prediction(s) our 
model makes about each variable’s impact that allow identiﬁcation. The 
full set of plots are in Online Appendix Figs. OA1 and OA2. 
our model, and our results would be the same if we di- 
rectly estimated the μ instead. 
3.6.1. Identifying activists’ campaign cost parameters ( d caut ,0 
and τL ) 
We primarily identify d caut ,0 and τL using the observed 
campaign frequency ( 13-D /year) in the full sample and 
the difference in 13-D /year when activists have strong and 
weak track records, making r t unusually high or low. In- 
creasing d caut ,0 is equivalent to lowering average campaign 
costs, meaning both types of A choose 13-D more fre- 
quently across all r t (denoted by higher d caut and d agr ), as 
illustrated by Panel A in Fig. 2 . Increasing τL decreases the 
noise in ˜ L , making A put relatively more weight on the ex- 
pected payoff in the campaign. Panel B of Fig. 2 shows this 
leads an aggressive A , who has higher expected payoffs, to 
initiate more campaigns across all r t . It also makes a cau- 
tious A initiate more campaigns when r t is high because 
the higher likelihood of settling increases their expected 
payoff but has no effect on d caut for low r t because d caut ,0 
is ﬁxed. 
Panels A and B of Fig. 3 show these comparative stat- 
ics translate to the empirical prediction that d caut ,0 and τL 
determine the level and slope, respectively, of the relation 
between r t and the model-implied 13-D /year. All plots in 
Fig. 3 show predictions for r t between 0% and 10% to make 
level and slope effects easier to visually distinguish and be- 
cause we estimate the median r t is 0.55% and 75% of r t are 
below 10%. 
3.6.2. Identifying targets’ proxy ﬁght cost parameters ( y 0 and 
τM ) 
We primarily identify y 0 and τM using the average 
settlement frequency and the difference in settlement 
frequency when activists have strong versus weak track 
records, respectively. Increasing y 0 is equivalent to increas- 
ing M ’s average cost of a proxy ﬁght, which increases the 
probability M settles across all r t , as illustrated by Panel 
E of Fig. 2 . Increasing τM reduces the noise in M ’s settle- 
ment decision and therefore increases the sensitivity of y 
to r t , as illustrated by Panel F of Fig. 2 . These comparative 
statics translate directly to predictions about the probabil- 
ity a campaign is settled [ P (Set t le ) ], as illustrated by Pan- 
els E and F of Fig. 3 . We use observable target actions a to 
measure Settle empirically, as detailed in Model Table 1 . 
T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 37 
Fig. 2. Comparative statics. We show how different parameterizations of our model affect equilibrium strategies as a function of activist reputation r t . The 
strategies are expressed by d caut and d agr , the probabilities cautious A and aggressive A choose 13-D , respectively; y , the probability M chooses Settle ; and 
f caut and f agr , the probabilities cautious A and aggressive A choose Fight , respectively. The solid lines represents the baseline strategy in our model with 
estimated parameters presented in Table 2 , while the dotted lines represent the equilibrium strategies when a single parameter is increased by 50%. Gray 
lines represent cautious A ’s strategies. 
38 T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 
Fig. 3. Model identiﬁcation. We show how different parameterizations affect model-predicted observable outcomes as a function of activist reputation r t . 
The outcomes are 13-D /yr, the annualized rate at which an activist initiates a campaigns; P ( Settle ), the percent probability a campaign is settled; P ( Fight ), 
the percent probability a campaign ends in a proxy ﬁght; (r t+ − r t ) | Set t le, the increase in r t after a campaign ending in Settle ; and (r t+ − r t ) | F ight, the 
increase in r t after a campaign ending in Fight . The solid line in each plot represents the baseline functional form in our model with estimated parameters 
presented in Table 2 and the dotted line presents the equilibrium functional form when a single parameter is increased by 50%. 
T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 39 
3.6.3. Identifying activists’ proxy ﬁght cost parameters 
( f caut ,0 , f agr ,0 , and τA ) 
We primarily identify f caut ,0 using the full-sample prob- 
ability campaigns end in proxy ﬁghts. Increasing f caut ,0 
is equivalent to reducing cautious A ’s average cost of a 
proxy ﬁght and, therefore, increases the probability cau- 
tious A choose Fight when refused, as illustrated in Panel 
I of Fig. 2 . The same plot illustrates that an aggressive A 
chooses Fight slightly less frequently with higher f caut ,0 be- 
cause cautious A ’s added aggression decreases the repu- 
tation gained by choosing Fight . Panel I in Fig. 3 shows 
that these effects shift the probability of a proxy ﬁght 
[ P (F ight) ] upwards for A with low r t , which drives up the 
predicted full-sample average because we estimate most 
activists have low r t . 
We primarily identify f agr ,0 using the differences in set- 
tlement and proxy ﬁght frequencies between low and high 
r t subsamples. Increasing f agr ,0 while holding ﬁxed f caut ,0 
widens the gap between cautious A and aggressive A in 
their frequency of proxy ﬁghting (see Panel K of Fig. 2 ). 
This added difference also increases the slopes of the re- 
lations between r t and both initiation and settlement de- 
cisions (see Panels C and G of Fig. 2 ). Combined, these 
comparative statics yield a distinct empirical prediction for 
f agr ,0 : It positively affects the slope of the relations between 
r t and 13-D /year, P (Set t le ) , and P (F ight ) , as illustrated by 
Fig. 3 . Other variables increase one of these slopes but not 
the other slopes. For example, Fig. 3 shows that increas- 
ing τM increases P (Set t le ) when r t is high but decreases 
P (F ight) because fewer campaigns reach that stage. The 
unique prediction that allows us to identify τM is there- 
fore that it positively affects both the r t –P (Set t le ) relation 
and the r t –P (F ight) relation. 
We primarily identify τA using the frequency and 
success of campaigns after r t has recently been up- 
dated. Increasing τA decreases the noise in A ’s decision 
to ﬁght, leading them to initiate more ﬁghts as invest- 
ments in reputation, which in turn results in more set- 
tlements by M and more campaign initiations by cau- 
tious A , as illustrated by Panels D, H, and L of Fig. 2 . 
These effects combine to make increasing τA result in 
a higher P (Set t le ) and P (F ight) for moderate r t (but 
no change for extreme r t ) and smaller increases in r t 
following successful campaigns because the relative ag- 
gressiveness of aggressive A ( d agr / d caut and f agr / f agr ) is 
smaller. Panels D, H, and L of Fig. 3 illustrate both these 
effects. As we discuss in Section 5.2 , the reputation- 
updating prediction is more distinct from the effects of 
other parameters and therefore plays a larger role in 
identifying τA . 
3.6.4. Identifying remaining parameters ( r 0 , λr , and /Delta1) 
We primarily identify r 0 by comparing campaigns by A 
with little or no track record to the broader sample. In- 
creasing r 0 directly affects the function mapping past ob- 
served campaigns to r t by increasing the prior used for 
Bayesian updating, resulting in higher r t for all observa- 
tions but especially when the activist is new to the sample 
and more weight is on the prior. Our choice of r 0 there- 
fore primarily affects the relative likelihoods of campaign 
initiation and success in the subsample of inexperienced 
activists. 12 
We identify λr using the apparent degree of persistence 
in the relation between past and future campaign out- 
comes. The arrival rate of type resets ( λr ) directly affects 
the mean reversion in r t when A does not initiate a cam- 
paign, as described in Section 3.2 and plotted in Online Ap- 
pendix Fig. OA2. We therefore predict λr primarily affects 
model implications for observations, where A had high r t 
prior to a period of inactivity, meaning r t is decaying. 
One other parameter requires the full structure of the 
model to estimate: the value added for target shareholders 
in a successful campaign ( /Delta1). For a given /Delta1, our sample 
of campaign outcomes allows us to identify the distribu- 
tion of costs and reputation as described above. Campaign 
outcome variables do not pin down the scale of successful 
projects. We thus identify /Delta1using the model’s prediction 
for the expected return to target shareholders at the start 
of a campaign: 
E ( Target shareholder payoff| r t , 13-D ) 
= /Delta1· P ( project occurs | r t , 13-D ) . (18) 
We can therefore identify /Delta1by combining model-implied 
campaign success rates with observed stock market reac- 
tions to campaign announcements ( CAR ). These reactions 
also serve as an extra source of identifying variation as 
Eq. (18) predicts how they vary across campaigns as a 
function of r t . 
In summary, we identify the ten parameters: 
θ= 
[/Delta1, d caut, 0 , τL , y 0 , τM , f caut, 0 , f agr, 0 , τA , r 0 , λr 
]
(19) 
using the structure of the model to ﬁt observed relations 
between past and future campaign frequency, outcomes, 
and announcement returns. In Section 4.3 , we describe 
how we implement this identiﬁcation strategy for θusing 
maximum likelihood and how we calibrate the remaining 
model parameters. 
4. Data and estimation 
In this section, we describe how we form our primary 
dataset and estimate our model. 
4.1. Data 
We assemble a sample of 4,235 activist campaigns ini- 
tiated during 1999–2016. We initially identify 35,768 cam- 
paigns using 13-D ﬁlings collected from the SEC’s Elec- 
tronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) 
database, and 5,910 campaigns using SharkWatch. 13 Of 
these, we keep 4,221 13-D ﬁlings and 3,874 campaigns 
from SharkWatch in which we successfully match target 
ﬁrms to the Compustat-CRSP Linked data and we identify 
12 For brevity and because they are straightforward to describe, we do 
not plot the effects of r 0 , λr , and /Delta1in Figs. 2 and 3 . We provide and 
discuss these plots in Online Appendix D. 
13 The SEC requires that investors ﬁle a beneﬁcial ownership report on 
Form 13-D within ten days of initiating an activist campaign. 
40 T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 
the activist is a ﬁnancial institution. 14 We exclude cam- 
paigns for which the target security does not pertain to 
an operating corporation by requiring target CRSP share 
code be 10, 11, 18, 31, or 71 and dropping campaigns 
targeting ﬁrms with Standard Industry Classiﬁcation (SIC) 
codes 6770 and 6726 (closed-end mutual funds and Spe- 
cial Purpose Aquisition Companies (SPACs), as studied in 
Bradley et al., 2010 ). 
Our initial ﬁlters result in a sample of 5,756 campaigns, 
some of which represent multiple activists targeting the 
same ﬁrm in rapid succession in what is known as “wolf 
pack activism” (see Brav et al., 2016 ). Because this behav- 
ior is outside our model, we take several steps to identify 
a lead activist who is the primary aggressor, and we at- 
tribute each campaign to the lead activist only. We clas- 
sify all campaign initiations by different activists target- 
ing the same ﬁrm in the year following the ﬁrst initiation 
date as part of a single campaign, which results in 4,235 
nonoverlapping campaigns, 956 of which feature multiple 
activists. For the 224 multiple-activist campaigns that in- 
volve a proxy ﬁght ( P roxy = 1 ) attributable to a single ac- 
tivist, we select that activist as the lead for the campaign. 15 
For the other 732 multiple-activist campaigns, we identify 
the lead activist as the one who ﬁrst initiates the cam- 
paign or, if two activists initiate campaigns on the same 
day, the activist with the highest proxy-ﬁght propensity in 
prior campaigns. 
Our main analysis studies a sample of campaigns by 
hedge funds, which are the primary focus of empirical 
literature on activism (see Brav et al., 2008; 2010 ) and 
have the institutional structure most favorable to taking 
the costly actions required to build and maintain repu- 
tation (see Starks, 1987; Ackermann et al., 1999; Stulz, 
2007 ). SharkWatch data indicate directly which activists 
are hedge funds, and we identify which 13-D ﬁlers are 
hedge funds by cross-checking the activist name with the 
Factset Lionshares holdings data and using one-by-one In- 
ternet searches. Among the initial sample of 4,235 cam- 
paigns, we ﬁnd 2,434 activist campaigns by 420 unique 
hedge funds targeting 1,889 unique ﬁrms. In Online Ap- 
pendix G, we analyze the remaining 1801 campaigns by 
603 unique non hedge fund activists targeting 1489 unique 
ﬁrms. 
We face two data limitations that guide our sample 
construction and, because we assume future targets face 
the same limitations, the modeling choices discussed in 
Section 3.2 . First, we cannot observe instances in which 
an activist identiﬁed a potential target but chose not to 
initiation a campaign. Second, no direct measure exists 
14 To ﬁlter individual and nonﬁnancial corporation activists, we drop 13- 
D ﬁlings in which the activist Central Index Key (CIK) has no 13-F ﬁlings 
on EDGAR, and drop SharkWatch campaigns in which the activist is classi- 
ﬁed as “Corporate” or “Indiv.” We match target ﬁrms to Compustat-CRSP 
using CIKs and quarterly ﬁling dates for the 13-D ﬁlings and nine-digit 
CUSIPs and quarterly ﬁling dates for the SharkWatch campaigns. 
15 We compute Proxy , an indicator for whether the campaign features 
a proxy ﬁght, by collecting preliminary and deﬁnitive proxy ﬁlings from 
EDGAR relating to contested solicitations (forms DFAN14A, DEFR14A, 
DEFC14A, and DEFN14A) and apply the matching and ﬁlters outlined 
above with 13-D ﬁlings. For SharkWatch campaigns, we also use the pro- 
vided “Proxy Fight” designation. 
for whether a campaign was settled. In principle, one 
could use the text in 13-D ﬁlings to determine speciﬁc de- 
mand(s) made by activists and then use subsequent news 
items and ﬁnancial statements to see whether those de- 
mands were met. However, successful campaigns often end 
with different outcomes than those speciﬁed in the 13- 
D ﬁling because initial demands are often vague (e.g., en- 
hance shareholder value) and serve as the start of a broad 
and evolving negotiation. Furthermore, Bebchuk et al. 
(2020) ﬁnds evidence formal legal settlements are rela- 
tively rare, occurring in only 13% of their sample, but in- 
formal settlements, whereby targets take activist-friendly 
actions, are much more common. We therefore include all 
campaigns in our sample regardless of initial demands and 
use the vector a of observable actions by the target to as- 
sess whether non-proxy campaigns are formally or infor- 
mally settled. 
The ﬁve variables in a are indicators for whether the 
target ﬁrm took each of ﬁve activist-friendly actions in 
the year following campaign initiation: Reorg , which indi- 
cates the target ﬁrm announces a reorganization, change in 
strategic direction, or discontinuation/downsizing of busi- 
ness; Payout , which indicates the target ﬁrm’s quarterly 
payout (dividends plus stock repurchases) increases by 
more than 1% of assets; CEO , which indicates the CEO of 
the target ﬁrm departs; Board , which indicates a member 
of the target’s board of directors departs or a new direc- 
tor is appointed due to activism; and Acq , which indicates 
the target ﬁrm announces a merger or acquisition, or an- 
nounces that it seeks to sell or divest a business. We com- 
pute these ﬁve indicators using data from Capital IQ Key 
Developments, SharkWatch, and Compustat, as detailed in 
Appendix B . 
To isolate the incremental effect of activism on target 
actions, we estimate the likelihood they would occur with- 
out activism using predictive regressions on a broader uni- 
verse of all Compustat ﬁrms, as described in Appendix C . 
We deﬁne the expected action vector ˆ a as the ﬁtted value 
from these regressions for the target at the time of cam- 
paign initiation. Using ˆ a that varies across campaigns al- 
lows us to address the possibility that high reputation ac- 
tivists seem more successful by our measures because they 
select ﬁrms that will take the actions a even without ac- 
tivist intervention. Using ˆ a mitigates this possible expla- 
nation because it requires that activist campaigns prompt 
targets to take more target actions than their characteris- 
tics would predict. As a robustness test, we show in Online 
Appendix E that assuming constant ˆ a across all campaigns 
has a negligible effect on our results. 
In addition to ex post campaign outcomes, we use tar- 
get stock returns around campaign initiations to estimate 
how much value activists create in their target ﬁrms both 
on average and as a function of reputation. We measure 
these market reactions using CAR , the [ −1 , +1 ] abnormal 
return for target ﬁrms around the day on which the cam- 
paign is initiated. 
4.2. Descriptive statistics 
Table 1 shows descriptive statistics for our campaign 
outcome variables. About 14% of campaigns result in proxy 
T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 41 
Table 1 
Descriptive statistics. 
We present summary statistics for the activist campaigns in our sample. Proxy is an indicator for whether the campaign features a proxy ﬁght. CAR 
is the target’s [-1,1] market-adjusted return around the campaign initiation date. 13-D is an indicator for whether there is a campaign initiation on a 
given activist-day. The ﬁve indicator variables for target actions in the year following campaign initiation are Reorg , for whether the target initiates a 
restructuring; Payout , for whether the target substantially increases payouts to shareholders; CEO , for whether the target changes CEO; Board , for whether 
the target changes board composition due to activism; and Acq , for whether the target engages in a merger or acquisition. For each action indicator, ˆ  Action 
is its expected value in the absence of activism based on the regressions discussed in Appendix C and Ab Action is Action − ˆ  Action . Actions is the sum of 
these ﬁve indicators, ˆ  Actions is the sum of the ˆ  Action , and Ab Actions is the difference between the two. We present averages for each variable in the full 
sample and in subsamples sorted by whether Proxy = 1 and whether it is the activist’s ﬁrst campaign. Our sample for 13-D is 737,004 activist-days during 
1999–2016. Our sample for the other variables is 2,434 campaigns initiated by hedge funds during 1999–2016. 
Means by subsample 
Standard Proxy = 1 Proxy = 0 First camp. 
Variable Mean Deviation N = 348 N = 2086 N = 419 
Proxy (percent) 14.3 35.0 100.0 0.0 13.8 
CAR (percent) 2.8 9.0 3.8 2.7 1.9 
13-D ( × 365) 1.0 19.1 —— —
Reorg (percent) 32.6 46.9 48.3 30.0 30.1 
ˆ Reorg (percent) 13.9 9.4 16.0 13.5 12.5 
Ab Reorg (percent) 18.7 45.6 32.3 16.5 17.6 
Payout (percent) 14.7 35.4 16.7 14.4 12.6 
ˆ  Payout (percent) 10.1 14.6 10.5 10.1 8.6 
Ab Payout (percent) 4.6 32.5 6.2 4.3 4.0 
CEO (percent) 25.4 43.6 31.6 24.4 24.3 
ˆ  CEO (percent) 13.7 4.0 14.1 13.6 13.0 
Ab CEO (percent) 11.7 43.6 17.5 10.8 11.4 
Board (percent) 25.6 43.6 68.1 18.5 27.0 
ˆ Board (percent) 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.4 0.3 
Ab Board (percent) 25.2 43.6 67.6 18.1 26.6 
Acq (percent) 27.8 44.8 42.0 25.4 28.6 
ˆ  Acq (percent) 10.3 4.1 11.2 10.1 9.5 
Ab Acq (percent) 17.5 44.6 30.8 15.3 19.2 
Actions ( × 100) 126.1 123.4 206.6 112.7 122.7 
ˆ  Actions ( × 100) 48.4 22.8 52.3 47.7 43.9 
Ab Actions ( × 100) 77.7 120.1 154.3 64.9 78.8 
contests, indicating that activists rarely engage in direct 
governance via shareholder vote. Despite this infrequency, 
Table 1 shows that activists have a remarkable impact on 
target behavior even in the 86% of campaigns not fea- 
turing a proxy ﬁght. Targets are much more likely than 
predicted by ˆ a to initiate corporate restructurings, change 
CEOs, change board composition, and engage in M&A. The 
effect on board composition is mechanically the strongest, 
with Board equal to one in 25.6% of campaigns but only 
0.4% of the broader Compustat universe, because the Cap- 
ital IQ code we use to identify board changes refers to 
activism-driven changes. These results validate that our 
sample captures most instances of activism and indicate 
that Board is an excellent measure of campaign success be- 
cause it rarely occurs by chance. Perhaps surprisingly, ac- 
tivist targets are only marginally more likely to pay off ac- 
tivists by increasing payouts. 
Target actions are particularly common in campaigns 
featuring proxy ﬁghts, with Reorg occurring in 32.3% more 
proxy campaigns than target ﬁrm propensity would sug- 
gest, Payout in 6.2%, CEO in 17.5%, Board in 67.6%, and 
Acq in 30.8%. These probabilities indicate proxy campaigns 
prompt substantial responses from target ﬁrms and sup- 
port the assumption in our model that target managers 
ﬁnd proxy ﬁghts privately costly because both CEO and 
board turnover substantially increase. Combined, we ﬁnd 
targets take an average of 1.543 abnormal activist-friendly 
actions ( Ab Actions ) in campaigns with P roxy = 1 . 
Even campaigns not featuring proxy ﬁghts are fre- 
quently successful, with targets taking each action more 
frequently than our predictive regressions would suggest. 
The average Ab Actions in these campaigns is 0.649, around 
40% of the total in P roxy = 1 campaigns. 
Table 1 also shows that markets react positively to ac- 
tivist campaign initiations, with share prices increasing by 
an average of 2.8%. This is consistent with evidence in prior 
literature (e.g., Brav et al., 2008; Collin-Dufresne and Fos, 
2015 ) and our model’s assumption that activist campaign 
outcomes are either positive or neutral for shareholders, 
meaning the initiation of a campaign is positive news in 
expectation. 
4.3. Estimation 
We use two vectors to summarize our model’s parame- 
ters: 
θ= 
[/Delta1, d caut, 0 , τL , y 0 , τM , f caut, 0 , f agr, 0 , τA , r 0 , λr 
]
(20) 
and /Omega1= [ δ, σcar , βreorg , βpayout , βceo , βboard , βacq , λc ] , (21) 
where σcar is the standard deviation of CAR . The ﬁrst ten 
parameters ( θ) are diﬃcult to estimate directly but can 
be identiﬁed using the structure of the model combined 
with our panel of campaigns, as illustrated in Section 3.6 . 
The remaining eight parameters ( /Omega1) either are impossible 
42 T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 
to separately identify using available data or are estimable 
without the model. We therefore ﬁx /Omega1and estimate θus- 
ing maximum likelihood. 
We assign a value for δbecause we cannot distinguish 
empirically between a high value of δ, which makes ac- 
tivists initiate more campaigns and proxy ﬁghts as invest- 
ments in reputation, and higher values of campaign cost 
precision τL and manager proxy cost precision τA , which 
have the same two effects. We therefore base our estima- 
tion on the assumption that δ= 0 . 9 . 16 Similarly, we can- 
not distinguish empirically between a high arrival rate λc , 
which makes observed campaigns occur more frequently, 
and a high no-reputation campaign initiation rate d caut ,0 , 
which has the same effect. We therefore assume a λc = 10 , 
which is suﬃciently high so that the upper bound on 13-D 
frequency [ d i ( r t ) ≤ 1] is far from binding. In Online Ap- 
pendix E, we show our main results are robust to alterna- 
tive choices for these exogenous parameters as long as λc 
is not unrealistically small. 
Unlike the parameters in θ, both σcar and βi are es- 
timable using reduced form approaches that do not rely 
on the structure of the model. For σcar , we use the sam- 
ple standard deviation of CAR , 8.99%. Our estimates for βi , 
the added probability of action a i due to a successful cam- 
paign, rely on the deﬁnition provided in Eq. (7) . This def- 
inition shows that βi equals the average a i − ˆ a i in cam- 
paigns featuring a proxy ﬁght, which we present in Table 1 . 
We account for ﬁrst-stage estimation error in σcar and βi 
when calculating standard errors for our estimates of θ, as 
detailed in Online Appendix C. 
Given these ﬁxed values for /Omega1, we estimate θby max- 
imizing the likelihood of observed data. For each θ, we 
compute the likelihood function l ( θ) using the following 
four-step process: 
1. Compute equilibrium strategies and value functions nu- 
merically as described in Sections 3.3 and A.2 . 
2. Using these strategies, compute each activist’s reputa- 
tion r t for each day, as described in Sections 3.2 and 
A.1 . 
3. Compute the conditional likelihood of each observed 
campaign as 
L c (θ) = L ga p 
c (θ) · L 13 − D 
c (θ) · L car 
c (θ) · L out come 
c (θ) , (22) 
where L ga p 
c (θ) is the probability the activist initiates no 
campaigns until the date of their next 13-D , L 13 − D 
c (θ) 
is the probability an opportunity arrives on the date 
of campaign c and the activist chooses 13-D , L car 
c (θ) is 
likelihood of the target stock’s reaction to the campaign 
initiation ( CAR ), and L out come 
c (θ) is the likelihood of the 
observed outcomes Proxy c and a c conditional on cam- 
paign initiation. Each of these likelihoods depends on 
r t , as detailed in D.1 . We assume CAR has distribution 
CAR ∼ N 
(/Delta1· P ( project occurs | r t , 13-D ) , σ2 
car 
)
. (23) 
4. Compute overall likelihood l (θ) = 
∑ 
c log ( L c (θ) ) . 
16 This is a common problem when structurally estimating dynamic 
models in corporate ﬁnance, and δ= 0 . 9 is a standard value to assume 
(e.g. in Taylor, 2010 ). 
5. Results and counterfactuals 
In this section, we present and discuss our main results 
and counterfactuals. 
5.1. Equilibrium results and hypothesis tests 
Panel A of Table 2 presents our estimates of model pa- 
rameters along with standard errors accounting for estima- 
tion error in σcar and βi and conﬁdence intervals based 
on likelihood ratio tests. Fixing any individual parameter to 
take a value outside these ranges results in a signiﬁcantly 
worse ﬁt at the 5% level even when all other parameters 
are reestimated to maximize ﬁt, as detailed in Online Ap- 
pendix ??. 
The projects that activists demand generate an esti- 
mated average return /Delta1= 6 . 62% for target shareholders. 
Private costs to target managers of these projects are suﬃ- 
ciently large relative to the costs and likelihood of proxy 
ﬁghts that they only settle in y 0 = 21 . 82% of campaigns 
when the activist is sure to be the cautious type. We esti- 
mate r 0 = 2 . 05% of activists are aggressive types who ﬁght 
f agr, 0 = 48 . 03% of the time when their demands are re- 
fused and reputation is not a concern, compared with only 
a f caut, 0 = 11 . 10% baseline ﬁght rate for cautious types. Ac- 
tivist type resets arrive at a rate of λr = 0 . 19 per year. Type 
resets do not necessarily imply type changes because we 
estimate that 98% of activists are cautious and therefore 
are likely to remain cautious after their type is redrawn. 
Our estimated parameters imply the mean campaign 
cost ( ˜ L ) is 5.44% of the activist’s position in the target and 
the mean proxy ﬁght cost ( ˜ F A ) is 8.68% for aggressive A and 
19.44% for cautious A . These averages are substantial rela- 
tive to the return from a successful campaign ( /Delta1= 6 . 62% ), 
resulting in activists initiating campaigns and proxy ﬁghts 
only when cost realizations are unusually low. The relative 
size of average activist costs also illustrates the importance 
of reputation-building incentives, which allow activists to 
sometimes initiate campaigns and proxy ﬁghts despite the 
costs exceeding single-campaign beneﬁts. 
The only other estimates of these costs we are aware 
of are in Gantchev (2013) , which ﬁnds non-proxy cam- 
paigns cost an average of 5.05% of the activist’s investment 
and proxy ﬁghts cost an additional 8.27%. These averages 
differ from ours in sample period, data sources, and esti- 
mator. A potential economic reason the average costs in 
Gantchev (2013) are lower than our estimates, especially 
for cautious A , is that his static framework requires all de- 
cisions be proﬁtable in a single campaign, whereas our dy- 
namic framework allows activists to initiate campaigns and 
proxy ﬁghts at a loss as an investment in reputation. 
For a given set of no-reputation parameters d caut ,0 , y 0 , 
f caut ,0 , and f agr ,0 , the precision parameters τL , τM , and τA 
determine how agents behave when r t is strictly positive. 
Large values of τL and τM indicate stronger relations be- 
tween r t and campaign initiation and settlement decisions, 
respectively. Large values of τA indicate more reputation- 
seeking ﬁghts. Small values of these precisions indicate 
agents follow mixed strategies independent of their r t . We 
ﬁnd that all three precisions are positive and statistically 
distinct from zero, indicating that constraining our model 
T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 43 
Table 2 
Estimated model parameters and hypothesis tests. 
Panel A describes the model parameters we estimate and gives their estimated values. We also provide standard errors (SE) accounting for estimation error 
in σcar and β and 95% conﬁdence intervals (CI) based on likelihood-ratio tests, both detailed in Online Appendix C. Panel B describes the model parameters 
we ﬁx and gives their values. Panel C presents results from testing the no-reputation and full-information hypotheses. For both, we present reestimated 
model parameters as well as the Wilks (1938) likelihood-ratio χ2 statistic and its p -value. Our sample consists of 2,434 campaigns initiated by hedge funds 
during 1999–2016. 
Panel A: Parameters estimated using maximum likelihood 
Parameter Description Estimate SE 95% CI 
/Delta1 Value of project A demands/market capitalization (percent) 6.62 (0.66) [5.70, 7.35] 
d caut ,0 Probability cautious A chooses 13-D given r t− = 0 (percent) 4.16 (0.63) [2.78, 8.83] 
τL Precision log(Cost of campaign to A ) 1.65 (0.19) [0.48, 2.06] 
y 0 Probability M settles given r t− = 0 (percent) 21.82 (2.43) [12.87, 24.22] 
τM Precision log( M proxy ﬁght cost/ M project cost) 0.33 (0.15) [0.11, 0.48] 
f caut ,0 Probability cautious A chooses Fight given r t− = 0 (percent) 11.10 (2.81) [2.44, 14.66] 
f agr ,0 Probability aggressive A chooses Fight given r t− = 0 (percent) 48.03 (6.66) [40.73, 60.38] 
τA Precision log( A proxy ﬁght cost) 1.45 (0.64) [0.72, 2.42] 
r 0 Unconditional probability A is aggressive (percent) 2.05 (1.94) [1.00, 9.80] 
λr Arrival rate of type resets (annualized) 0.19 (0.07) [0.08, 0.36] 
Panel B: Parameters assumed or directly estimated 
Param. Description Value 
δ Activists’ annual discount factor 0.90 
σcar Standard deviation of campaign announcement three-day CAR (percent) 8.99 
βreorg Added probability of reorganization in successful camp. (percent) 32.25 
βpayout Added probability of payout increase in successful camp. (percent) 6.16 
βceo Added probability of CEO change in successful camp. (percent) 17.53 
βboard Added probability of board change in successful camp. (percent) 67.63 
βacq Added probability of M&A activity in successful camp. (percent) 30.76 
λc Arrival rate of campaign opportunities (annualized) 10.00 
Panel C: Hypothesis tests 
Model /Delta1 d caut ,0 τL y 0 τM f caut ,0 f agr ,0 τA r 0 λr χ2 p -value 
Baseline 6.62 4.16 1.65 21.82 0.33 11.10 48.03 1.45 2.05 0.19 
No reputation 6.67 9.94 — 28.05  — 19.87  — — — — 340.1  0.00% 
Full information 6.80 9.12 2.00 29.52 0.12 12.36 64.15 —0 . 8 5  — 21.0  0.00% 
to ignore r t at any of the three stages results in signif- 
icantly worse ﬁt. We illustrate the economic signiﬁcance 
of these precisions in Fig. 1 , which presents estimated 
equilibrium strategies as a function of r t , as described in 
Section 3.5 . 
We formally test whether reputation signiﬁcantly af- 
fects equilibrium outcomes using two constrained versions 
of our model: a no-reputation framework in which targets 
do not use past campaigns to assess the activist’s type, and 
a full-information framework in which each activist’s type 
is common knowledge. For each framework, we reestimate 
the model to ﬁnd parameters that best ﬁt the data. In the 
no-reputation framework, each campaign is played inde- 
pendently of other campaigns using the static equilibrium 
in Section 3.4 with the unconditional reputation r 0 apply- 
ing in all campaigns. This implies all stage games follow 
the same mixed strategy equilibrium, where A with type i 
chooses 13-D with probability d s 
i and Fight with probability 
f s 
i , and M chooses Settle with probability y s . While we can 
identify these equilibrium probabilities, we cannot identify 
the full set of parameters θ in a no-reputation world be- 
cause many parameters θ generate the same static game 
equilibrium. One of many equivalent formulations for any 
no-reputation equilibrium features r 0 = 0 , meaning we can 
estimate the no-reputation model with only four parame- 
ters: /Delta1, d caut ,0 , y 0 , and f caut ,0 . 
Panel C of Table 2 presents our estimates of the no- 
reputation model. We ﬁnd that activists choosing 13- 
D with probability 9.94%, managers choosing Settle with 
probability 28.05%, and activists choosing Fight with prob- 
ability 19.87% ﬁt the data best. These probabilities are 
higher than the zero-reputation strategies in our baseline 
estimation because they capture average behavior in our 
whole sample instead of the behavior of an activist with 
r t = 0 . As Fig. 1 illustrates, campaign frequency, settlement, 
and ﬁghting are all much more frequent when r t > 0 in 
our dynamic model than when r t = 0 . 
Despite ﬁtting the data as well as possible on average, 
the no-reputation parameters result in a much lower like- 
lihood of the observed data than our more general model 
because r t strongly predicts campaign frequency and out- 
comes. We therefore ﬁnd a high likelihood ratio χ2 statis- 
tic and strongly reject the no-reputation hypothesis. 
Another hypothesis is that targets have complete infor- 
mation about which type of activist they are facing. Like 
the no-reputation hypothesis, the full-information hypoth- 
esis removes reputation-building incentives. Unlike the no- 
reputation hypothesis, each stage game does not feature 
the same equilibrium strategy. Instead, each game is played 
according to the r 0 = 0 static equilibrium for cautious A 
and the r 0 = 1 static equilibrium for aggressive A . To make 
the full-information model estimable by econometricians 
44 T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 
who do not directly observe activist type, we assume ac- 
tivist types do not change and assign each activist the 
type that maximizes the likelihood of their full-sample set 
of campaign outcomes. We therefore identify the full set 
of parameters θ except for τA (because r t is never be- 
tween zero and one) and λr (because activist types do not 
change). 
We ﬁnd that the full-information model ﬁts the data 
best when a cautious A chooses 13-D 9.12% of the time and 
Fight 12.36% of the time, while an aggressive A chooses 
13-D 65.9% of the time and Fight 64.15% of the time, and 
M settles with cautious A 29.5% of the time and aggres- 
sive A 40.8% of the time. 17 Aggressive A s are less common 
( r 0 = 0 . 85% versus 2.05%) in the full-information estimates. 
While the full-information hypothesis ﬁts the data better 
than the no-reputation hypothesis, it is still strongly re- 
jected because our baseline reputation model allows for 
campaign frequency and success to vary within-activist as 
their r t changes. This possibility ﬁts the data better than 
ascribing, even with the beneﬁt of full-sample hindsight, 
each activist as consistently playing the same equilibrium. 
5.2. Moments and identiﬁcation in the data 
In Section 3.6 , we discuss our identiﬁcation strategy in 
the context of our model, showing how parameters af- 
fect the predicted relations between past and future ob- 
servable outcomes via r t . In this section, we illustrate how 
our model’s parameters are identiﬁed using our full sam- 
ple and various sub-samples of activist campaigns. To do 
so, we compute moments in the data, predicted values 
for these moments in baseline and alternative models, and 
the elasticity of model-predicted moments with respect to 
changes in parameters. 
The moments, presented in Table 3 , are the means 
of four outcome variables ( 13-D , Ab Actions | P roxy = 0 , CAR , 
and Proxy ) in the full sample and differences in means 
across subsamples selected based on the analyses in 
Section 3.6 . The four subsample differences we present are 
high r t observations (those with r t > 50%) minus low r t 
observations (those with r t < 0.5%), observations with re- 
cently updated r t (those where A has ﬁve or more cam- 
paigns and an increase in r t over the prior year) minus 
the full sample, observations with new A (those in each A ’s 
ﬁrst year) minus the full sample, and observations with de- 
caying r t (those with r t > r 0 and over a year since the prior 
campaign) minus the full sample. 
5.2.1. Alternative models 
For both our baseline model and alternative models, 
we use estimated parameters presented in Table 2 to 
compute each activist’s r t for all days, including days 
without campaign initiations. 18 For each campaign in our 
sample, we then compute the model-implied average 
17 Aggressive A ’s probability of choosing 13-D and M ’s probability of set- 
tling with aggressive A are computed from full-information d caut ,0 , τL , y 0 , 
and τM . 
18 See Appendix D.1 for details on how we handle activists only present 
in part of our sample. 
Ab Actions | P roxy = 0 , CAR , and Proxy conditional on pre- 
campaign r t . For the model-implied moments of 13-D , we 
use r t on all activist-days to compute the likelihood we 
observe a 13-D on each activist-day. Finally, we compute 
average model-predicted values across the full sample and 
differences in averages across subsamples. 
We ﬁnd our baseline model ﬁts the means of 13-D, 
CAR , and Proxy well, but it underestimates the mean of 
Ab Actions | P roxy = 0 . Our baseline model also ﬁts cross- 
reputation differences well for 13-D , slightly overstates 
differences in Ab Actions , and understates cross-reputation 
differences in Proxy . We discuss model ﬁt extensively in 
Section 5.4 . 
In Table 3 , we also show the predicted values for each 
moment in the no-reputation and full-information alter- 
native models, with ↑ ( ↓ ) superscripts indicating mo- 
ments which the alternative model ﬁts signiﬁcantly bet- 
ter (worse) than the baseline model. The no-reputation al- 
ternative ﬁts the full-sample means well but predicts no 
cross-campaign variation in expected outcomes, making all 
its predictions for difference-based moments equal to zero. 
This results in the no-reputation model ﬁtting four of the 
moments based on cross-campaign differences signiﬁcantly 
worse than our baseline model, illustrating why our formal 
likelihood-ratio test rejects the no-reputation alternative in 
Table 2 . 
No signiﬁcant differences exist between our baseline 
model and the full-information model in ﬁtting the mo- 
ments in Table 3 , with one notable exception: the spread 
in 13-D between high and low r t observations, which 
the full-information model ﬁts signiﬁcantly worse than 
our baseline model. As we detail in Section 5.4 , the 
full-information model fails to capture the full extent of 
variation in 13-D because it allows only across-activist 
variations, whereas our model also allows within-activist 
variation depending on r t . This shortcoming, together 
with the additional within-activist evidence we discuss in 
Section 5.4 , leads to the rejection of the full-information 
alternative in Table 2 . 
5.2.2. Identifying parameters in the baseline model 
In Section 3.6 , we illustrate how each model parame- 
ter has a unique impact on our model’s empirical predic- 
tions that allows it to be identiﬁed. We quantify these pre- 
dictions in Table 3 by presenting the local elasticities of 
model-implied values for each moment ( ˆ m i ) with respect 
to (wrt) each parameter ( θj ), deﬁned as: 
Elasticity of ˆ m i wrt parameter θj ≡ ∂ ˆ m i ( ˆ θ) 
∂θj 
·
ˆ θj 
ˆ m i ( ˆ θ) 
. 
(24) 
We compute these elasticities at our parameter estimate ˆ θ
for every i and j , but for parsimony we only present elas- 
ticities with absolute values above 0.25 in Table 3 . 
The ﬁrst column of Table 3 shows elasticities with re- 
spect to /Delta1, which as we describe in Section 3.6 directly 
affects average CAR . We show that this is the case, with 
average model-predicted CAR having an elasticity with re- 
spect to changes in /Delta1equal to one, which is higher 
than any other parameter. Furthermore, changing /Delta1only 
T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 45 
Table 3 
Moments and identiﬁcation. 
We present model predictions and observed values of four different outcome variables, all deﬁned in Table 1 . We present average values for these moments 
in the full sample as well as four subsample differences: high r t observations (those with r t > 50%) minus low r t observations (those with r t < 0.5%), 
observations with recently updated r t (those in which A has ﬁve or more campaigns and an increase in r t over the prior year) minus the full sample, 
observations with new A (those in which A ’s ﬁrst campaign was in the prior year) minus the full sample, and observations with decaying r t (those with 
r t > r 0 and over a year since the prior campaign) minus the full sample. For each moment and subsample, we present average observed values in the data, 
standard errors (SE) for data averages clustered by activist, average predicted values in our baseline model, no-reputation, and full-information models, 
and local elasticities of our baseline model’s prediction for each moment to changes in each parameter. We only tabulate elasticities larger than 0.25 in 
absolute value. Elasticities highlighted in Bold are the focus of our discussion in Section 3.6 . ↑ , ↑↑ , and ↑↑↑ ( ↓ , ↓↓ and ↓↓↓ ) indicate the alternative model 
ﬁts the data moment signiﬁcantly better (worse) than the baseline model with p -values below 10%, 5%, and 1%, respectively. The sample for 13-D is 737,004 
activist-days during 1999–2016. Our sample for the other variables is 2,434 campaigns initiated by hedge funds during 1999–2016. 
Data Model-estimated value Elasticity with respect to 
Moment: Value (SE) Baseline No reputation Full infoformation /Delta1d caut ,0 τL y 0 τM f caut ,0 f agr ,0 τA r 0 λr 
Full sample 
Mean CAR 2.82 (0.25) 2.80 2.82 2.90 1.00 0.54 
Mean 13-D 1.00 (0.08) 0.93 1.06 1.08 0.45 0.44 -0.25 
Mean Ab Actions | Proxy = 0 0.65 (0.04) 0.52 0.51 0.55 0.86 
Mean Proxy 14.30 (1.67) 13.74 14.30 11.87 -0.28 -0.27 0.66 
Observations with high r t - observations with low r t 
Mean 13-D 2.93 (0.24) 2.86 0.00 ↓↓↓ 2.21 ↓↓↓ 0.39 1.60 -0.86 0.66 -0.62 1.15 
Mean Ab Actions | Proxy = 0 0.37 (0.17) 0.50 0.00 0.36 0.60 -0.42 1.16 
Mean Proxy 25.25 (3.63) 15.43 0.00 ↓↓ 20.43 -0.66 -0.78 0.79 
Observations with recently updated r t - all observations 
Mean 13-D 3.87 (0.51) 1.59 0.00 ↓↓↓ 0.77 1.60 -0.89 0.35 -0.34 0.51 -0.36 
Mean Ab Actions | Proxy = 0 -0.02 (0.11) 0.21 0.00 ↑ 0.08 0.32 0.58 -0.26 
Mean Proxy 1.74 (3.63) 6.70 0.00 4.40 -0.76 -0.99 0.31 -0.28 
Observations with new A - all observations 
Mean 13-D -0.57 (0.11) -0.21 0.00 ↓ -0.12 0.30 -0.57 -0.26 0.31 
Mean Ab Actions | Proxy = 0 0.06 (0.08) -0.07 0.00 -0.03 0.64 1.03 -0.78 -0.25 0.27 0.42 
Mean Proxy -1.43 (2.20) -2.11 0.00 -1.94 0.66 1.05 1.11 -0.35 0.46 0.31 0.35 
Observations with decaying r t - all observations 
Mean 13-D 1.00 (0.59) 1.25 0.00 0.77 -0.30 -0.86 0.87 0.38 -0.46 -0.91 -0.56 
Mean Ab Actions | Proxy = 0 0.14 (0.45) 0.15 0.00 0.05 -0.72 -2.81 2.15 0.61 -0.59 -0.53 0.44 -0.54 
Mean Proxy 23.80 (9.56) 5.14 0.00 2.88 -0.69 -2.69 1.23 -0.67 -0.64 0.38 -0.49 
signiﬁcantly affects mean CAR , meaning /Delta1is primarily 
identiﬁed by the sample average CAR . 
Consistent with Fig. 3, Table 3 shows d caut ,0 and τL both 
directly affect mean predicted 13-D , but τL has a larger 
impact on the predicted difference in mean 13-D between 
high and low r t observations. d caut ,0 and τL are unique in 
the sense that other parameters either do not affect both 
these moments (e.g., y 0 ) or have large effects on moments 
unrelated to d caut ,0 and τL (e.g., f caut ,0 ). We therefore con- 
clude d caut ,0 and τL are primarily identiﬁed using observed 
means of 13-D in the full sample and subsamples with 
high or low r t . 
We identify y 0 using a similar approach to d caut ,0 
but with our measure of settlement frequency (average 
Ab Actions | P roxy = 0 ) replacing 13-D as the outcome vari- 
able. Consistent with the prediction in Fig. 3 , y 0 is the 
only parameter to strongly affect the full-sample average 
of Ab Actions | P roxy = 0 , allowing us to identify y 0 primar- 
ily using this moment. 
In Section 3.6 , we outline our model’s predictions for 
the effects of changing τM and f agr ,0 on the likelihoods of 
both settlements and proxy ﬁghts. Consistent with these 
predictions, Table 3 shows that increasing τM widens the 
gap in Ab Actions | P roxy = 0 across high and low r t cam- 
paigns. These added settlements reduce the likelihood 
of observing P roxy = 1 because fewer campaigns reach 
the ﬁnal stage, weakening the r t –Proxy relation. Increas- 
ing f agr ,0 has the opposite effect on the r t –Proxy rela- 
tion, which strengthens as aggressive A s are more likely 
to choose Fight , but has the same positive effect on the 
r t –Ab Actions | P roxy = 0 relation. Our estimates of τM and 
f agr ,0 are therefore primarily identiﬁed by the observed dif- 
ferences in settlement and proxy ﬁght frequency between 
high and low r t subsamples. 
Table 3 shows that, consistent with the prediction in 
Fig. 3 , the full-sample mean of Proxy is increasing in f caut ,0 
and not strongly affected by other parameters. Our esti- 
mate of f caut ,0 is therefore primarily identiﬁed by this mo- 
ment. 
Figs. 2 and 3 show that increasing τA narrows the gap 
in campaign and proxy ﬁght frequency between cautious 
A and aggressive A , making r t update less dramatically fol- 
lowing successful campaigns. This manifests in the model 
predicting campaigns are less likely to be initiated or to 
succeed when τA increases in cases for which A ’s reputa- 
tion has recently updated upward. We therefore focus on 
the subsample in which A has ﬁve or more campaigns in 
the past year and higher r t than a year ago, making r t re- 
cently updated and more sensitive to changes in τA . The 
τA column illustrates this pattern, with all three relative 
moments for the recently updated subsample decreasing in 
τA . Table 3 also shows that increasing τA affects other mo- 
ments.Its impact on observations with recently updated r t 
is unique in the sense that other parameters either do not 
affect all three of these moments (e.g., τL ) or have large 
effects on moments unrelated to τA (e.g., f agr ,0 ). 
46 T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 
As discussed in Section 3.6 , we predict that r 0 primarily 
affects outcomes early in an activist’s career. Table 3 shows 
this is the case, with increases in r 0 causing increases in 
model-implied settlements and proxy ﬁghts by activists in 
their ﬁrst year but not signiﬁcantly affecting overall mean 
outcomes. We therefore primarily identify r 0 by comparing 
campaigns early in activists’ careers relative to the overall 
sample. 
Finally, increasing λr primarily affects the rate at which 
r t reverts toward r 0 between campaigns. As a result, 
Table 3 shows that increasing λr only substantially affects 
moments in situations where a long gap exists since the 
prior campaign (more than a year) and r t is still above r 0 , 
meaning r t is reverting downward and will be further low- 
ered by increasing λr . We therefore primarily identify λr 
using this subset of observations. 
The analyses in Table 3 highlight an important aspect 
of our MLE approach, it does not explicitly identify each 
parameter using any one moment or any set of moments 
but instead uses the full joint distribution of campaign 
frequency, market reactions, and campaign outcomes. The 
model can informally be viewed as overidentiﬁed because 
we ask the same set of parameters to generate r t as well as 
the full shape of its relation with campaign frequency and 
three partially independent outcome measures ( a , CAR , and 
Proxy ). As a result, no combination of parameters can ex- 
plain all the features of the data. We discuss which aspects 
of the data our model ﬁts well and which it struggles to 
match in Section 5.4 . 
5.3. Reputation in the data 
Our estimation procedure produces pre- and post- 
campaign reputation measures r t and r t+ for each cam- 
paign, as summarized by Table 4 . Because aggressive ac- 
tivists are rare unconditionally ( r 0 = 2 . 05% ), r t and r t+ are 
positively skewed across campaigns. Most r t are negligi- 
ble, with a median of only 0.55%. A few activists establish 
strong reputations and initiate campaigns more frequently 
once they do, making the mean r t equal to 10.81%. 
Panel B of Table 4 shows the top 25 activists by average 
pre-campaign r t . It contains many of the best-known ac- 
tivist hedge funds, including Third Point, Elliot Associates, 
and Valueact. The two standouts are Starboard Value and 
Icahn Enterprises. Both have 77 campaigns in our sample 
have around 30 proxy ﬁghts, generate unusually many tar- 
get actions, and have average r t above the 90th percentile 
of the overall distribution. Fig. 4 shows the evolution of 
these activists’ r t , both of which are above 75% for the 
past decade and peak above 99%. Panel C of Fig. 4 also 
shows the evolution of r t for Loeb Partners, which initi- 
ated only one proxy ﬁght, has a low r t for most of the 
sample, and extracts many fewer settlements than Icahn 
Enterprises and Starboard Value. 
As illustrated by Fig. 4 , r t is persistent but decays be- 
tween campaigns. One reason for this decay is that activist 
types are redrawn at a rate of λr = 0 . 19 per year. Consis- 
tent with this feature, Fig. 4 shows activist behavior ap- 
pears to have occasional regime shifts whereby an activist 
with consistently high or low r t suddenly changes behav- 
ior and r t . Both Icahn Enterprises and Starboard Value were 
less frequent and successful activists and, as a result, had 
r t below 20%, until around 2005, at which point their be- 
havior changed and r t grew. Another example of this phe- 
nomenon is Riley Investment Management, which Fig. 4 il- 
lustrates built a strong r t from 2005 to 2009 and then 
suddenly became inactive, possibly due to its parent com- 
pany’s 2009 IPO, initiating only one additional campaign in 
2013. 
5.4. Effects of reputation and model ﬁt 
We assess our model’s ﬁt and measure the effects of 
reputation by estimating model-implied equilibrium strate- 
gies for each campaign in our sample, computing what 
these strategies imply for the distributions of outcomes, 
and comparing these predictions with observed outcomes. 
We do so using the same process as for Table 3 , described 
in Section 5.2 . Instead of local elasticities of moments to 
parameters, we present levels of model-implied and data 
moments for gradations of r t and, more important, esti- 
mates of unobservable equilibrium strategies and motiva- 
tions gleaned from our estimated model. 
Panel A of Table 5 shows that our model predicts that 
activists initiate an average of 1.00 campaigns per year and 
that high r t activist-days (those with r t > 50%) result in 
campaign initiations at a rate of 3.50 per year, six times as 
frequently as the 0.58 per year rate for low r t activist-days 
(those with r t < 0.50%). The data reveal nearly identical 
frequencies to our model’s predictions both on average and 
for extreme r t . 
Our structural approach also yields estimates for the 
distributions of costs and payoffs for activists, allowing us 
to estimate the fraction of observed campaigns initiated 
despite expected losses in the campaign itself as an in- 
vestment in reputation. For each observed campaign in 
the sample, we compute the likelihood of drawing ˜ L low 
enough to initiate a campaign in the dynamic model and 
compare this with the likelihood of drawing ˜ L low enough 
that the expected proﬁt from the individual campaign is 
positive. From this comparison, we estimate that 80.08% of 
13-D decisions in our sample had positive expected single- 
campaign proﬁts, and the remaining 19.92% were due to 
reputation-building incentives. 
Panel B of Table 5 summarizes strategies, outcomes, 
and motivations pertaining to settlement and ﬁghting de- 
cisions conditional on a campaign initiation. Our estimated 
model activists with high r t receive settlements 44.11% of 
the time compared with only 23.86% of the time for low 
r t activists, as depicted in Panel B of Fig. 1 . This translates 
into a strong relation between r t and the average Ab Actions 
in campaigns without a proxy ﬁght, which our model pre- 
dicts varies from 0.41 for low r t campaigns to 0.91 for high 
r t campaigns. Our model ﬁts the data well for medium and 
high r t activists but underestimates the success of low r t 
activists in non-proxy campaigns. 
Settling and ﬁghting decisions in our ﬁtted model com- 
bine to predict a strong relation between r t and both 
CAR and Ab Actions in all campaigns. The data support 
the predicted directions of these relations but imperfectly 
match the predicted quantities. Both low and high r t ac- 
tivists receive more average Ab Actions than predicted by 
T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 47 
Fig. 4. Example Reputation Dynamics. We plot the time series of model-implied reputations for four activists in our sample, Icahn Enterprises, Starboard 
Value, Loeb Partners, and Riley Investment Management, based on the sample of their campaigns and our estimated model. Each plot shows reputation 
between campaigns as a line and marks campaign dates with a circle if they do not feature a proxy ﬁght and an x if they do. For campaigns without 
a proxy ﬁght, the darkness of the circle is proportional to the probability the campaign was settled based on observed target actions and our estimated 
model. 
48 T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 
Table 4 
Reputation summary statistics. 
In Panel A, we present summary statistics for estimated post- and pre-campaign activist reputation measures r t+ and r t , which we describe in Section 4.3 . 
In Panel B, we list the 25 activists with the highest average r t . Ab Actions is the total number of abnormal activism-related corporate actions by target ﬁrms 
in the year following campaign initiation. CAR is the target’s [-1,1] market-adjusted return around the campaign initiation date. Our sample consists of 
2,434 campaigns initiated by hedge funds during 1999–2016. 
Panel A: Distribution of reputation across campaigns 
Percentile 
Mean Variance 1st 5th 10th 25th 50th 75th 90th 95th 99th 
r t+ 14.35 25.31 0.36 0.39 0.47 1.01 2.32 12.16 55.69 87.44 98.01 
r t 10.81 23.01 0.10 0.10 0.10 0.28 0.55 7.25 41.87 77.96 94.57 
Panel B: Highest reputation activists 
Mean Number of Number of Mean Mean 
Activist r t campaigns proxy ﬁghts Ab Actions CAR 
1. Starboard Value 79.15 77 30 2.25 4.65% 
2. Icahn Enterprises 61.70 77 28 1.84 6.21% 
3. Lone Star Value Management 47.36 16 8 0.88 4.27% 
4. Clinton Group 44.07 29 12 1.62 5.13% 
5. Riley Investment Management 42.79 24 7 1.75 3.02% 
6. Vertex Capital Adv 28.26 11 3 1.55 1.50% 
7. Steel Partners 27.93 56 9 1.32 2.55% 
8. Pirate Capital 27.85 18 3 1.78 2.84% 
9. Engaged Capital 26.18 12 4 1.92 2.57% 
10. Newcastle Partners 24.51 16 9 1.56 8.92% 
11. Bulldog Investment 24.15 24 12 1.13 0.41% 
12. Voce Capital Management 23.89 10 6 2.40 5.84% 
13. Lawrence Seidman 21.46 34 12 1.09 4.54% 
14. Barington Companies 19.32 28 10 1.71 4.09% 
15. Land & Buildings 17.65 6 4 1.83 5.63% 
16. Harbinger Capital Partners 16.64 16 4 2.25 0.25% 
17. PL Capital 16.37 39 10 0.79 3.27% 
18. Shamrock Partners 15.53 19 3 1.63 0.22% 
19. Millennium Management 14.69 44 0 0.82 -0.30% 
20. Sandell Asset Management 14.38 15 8 2.20 2.19% 
21. ValueAct Capital Management 14.28 80 1 1.48 1.80% 
22. Elliott Associates 13.16 45 5 1.84 4.60% 
23. Third Point 11.87 36 5 1.67 3.44% 
24. Stilwell Joseph 9.95 28 9 0.93 1.76% 
25. Tontine Associates 8.79 60 0 0.57 2.76% 
our model, with only medium r t campaigns matching the 
model closely. The model ﬁts average CAR well (2.80% ver- 
sus 2.82%), but the difference between high and low r t ac- 
tivists’ average CAR is smaller than predicted by the model 
(1.81% instead of 2.36%). 
Finally, we estimate that 81.17% of observed proxy ﬁghts 
were immediately proﬁtable and the remaining 18.83% 
were motivated by reputation building. This fraction is 
slightly lower than the corresponding fraction of campaign 
initiations (19.92%) despite proxy ﬁghts having a larger im- 
pact on post-campaign r t because our estimates indicate 
proxy ﬁghting costs are noisier than campaign initiation 
costs ( τA < τL ). As a result, the cost of ﬁghting ˜ F A is less 
likely to fall in the region where reputation-building incen- 
tives are decisive. 
As an alternative illustration of the magnitude of our 
main empirical ﬁndings and quality of our model’s ﬁt, 
we use linear regressions to compare observed relations 
between r t and campaign frequency and outcomes with 
those predicted by the model. These regressions abandon 
the structure of our model, which predicts nonlinear rela- 
tions, and so should be viewed as providing additional de- 
scriptive moments. They also offer several advantages over 
the summary statistics in Table 5 , allowing us to assess 
which dimensions of the data the model ﬁts well, com- 
pare our results with other empirical work on activism, 
and control for other potentially relevant activist charac- 
teristics. 19 
Table 6 present linear regression coeﬃcients for pre- 
dicting 13-D, Ab Actions, CAR , and Proxy using r t , without 
activist ﬁxed effects in Panel A and with them in Panel 
B. In both panels, we test three null hypotheses based on 
whether the data are generated by the baseline model, the 
no-reputation alternative model, and the full-information 
alternative model, all estimated to ﬁt the data as well as 
possible (as detailed in Section 5.1 ). For each null hypoth- 
esis, we compute the average coeﬃcient in 25 thousand 
simulated samples under the null and test whether the co- 
eﬃcient in the data is different from this average using t - 
statistics with standard errors clustered by activist. 
With the exception of Proxy in Panel A and CAR in Panel 
B, the magnitude of the estimated coeﬃcients are close 
19 Other structural papers using reduced form regressions on 
structurally estimated parameters to illustrate their results include 
DeAngelo et al. (2011) and Li et al. (2016) . 
T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 49 
Table 5 
Equilibrium effects of reputation. 
We present average strategies, outcomes, and motivations based on our estimated model in the full sample and subsamples by reputation. Strategies are 
described by d caut and d agr , cautious and aggressive activist’s probability of choosing 13-D; y , the target’s probability of settling; and f caut and f agr , cautious 
and aggressive activist’s probability of ﬁghting. 13-D, Ab Actions, CAR , and Proxy are deﬁned in Table 1 . “Short-term proﬁtable” is the fraction of campaign 
initiations or proxy ﬁghts that have positive expected proﬁts in the current campaign, with the remainder listed as “Reputation building.” Our sample for 
Panel A is 737,004 activist-days during 1999–2016. Our sample for Panel B is 2,434 campaigns initiated by hedge funds during 1999–2016. 
r t (percent) range: All [0, 0.5] [0.5, 5] [5, 50] [50, 100] 
Panel A: Activist-days sorted by r t 
Percent of activst-days 100.00 65.85 23.11 7.96 3.07 
Strategies 
d caut (percent of opportunities) 8.74 6.10 9.88 20.04 27.60 
d agr (percent of opportunities) 39.57 40.35 37.84 38.97 37.36 
Outcomes 
13-D (model) ( × 365) 1.00 0.58 1.17 2.99 3.50 
13-D (data) ( × 365) 0.93 0.62 1.03 2.29 3.48 
Motivations 
Short-term proﬁtable (percent of 13-D ) 80.08 84.75 73.20 71.77 91.82 
Reputation building (percent of 13-D ) 19.92 15.25 26.80 28.23 8.18 
Panel B: Campaigns sorted by r t 
Percent of campaigns 100.00 48.81 22.51 19.76 8.92 
Strategies 
y (percent of 13-D ) 28.55 23.86 26.97 34.89 44.11 
f caut (percent of Refuse ) 14.62 12.61 14.54 18.41 17.45 
f agr (percent of Refuse ) 58.98 59.26 60.19 60.07 51.96 
Outcomes 
Ab Actions (model) 0.65 0.52 0.61 0.83 1.08 
Ab Actions (data) 0.78 0.73 0.69 0.77 1.24 
Ab Actions | Proxy = 0 (model) 0.51 0.41 0.48 0.66 0.91 
Ab Actions | Proxy = 0 (data) 0.65 0.63 0.58 0.66 1.00 
CAR (model) (percent) 2.80 2.25 2.61 3.55 4.61 
CAR (data) (percent) 2.82 2.78 2.53 2.45 4.59 
Proxy (model) (percent) 13.74 10.12 12.46 18.79 25.55 
Proxy (data) (percent) 14.30 11.62 10.22 15.38 36.87 
Motivations 
Short-term proﬁtable (percent of Fight ) 81.17 87.95 76.62 68.77 90.16 
Reputation building (percent of Fight ) 18.83 12.05 23.38 31.23 9.84 
enough to the model-predicted magnitudes that we fail to 
reject the model null, suggesting that the model ﬁts fairly 
well along these dimensions. Echoing the results in Table 5 , 
we ﬁnd the relation between r t and Proxy is weaker in 
the estimated model than in the data. No choice of pa- 
rameters perfectly ﬁts all these relations because changing 
a parameter such as τA to make the model-implied rela- 
tion between r t and Proxy stronger would simultaneously 
strengthen the relations between r t and CAR and between 
r t and Ab Actions , both of which are already a bit stronger 
in the ﬁtted model than the data. 
Tables 5 and 6 show that the empirical relation be- 
tween r t and CAR is weaker than the model-implied re- 
lation. One potential reason is that market prices do not 
react to the information contained in campaign initiations 
entirely during the [ −1 , +1 ] announcement window we fo- 
cus on. Instead, targets of high reputation activists could 
outperform targets of low reputation activists prior to the 
announcement window due to information leakage or af- 
ter the announcement window due to a delayed reaction. 
In Online Appendix F, we show this is the case, with only 
around a third of the total effect of reputation on target re- 
turns occurring during the narrow announcement window. 
Unlike the estimated model, we can strongly reject the 
no-reputation null hypothesis in both Panels A and B. This 
null predicts no relation between r t and campaign out- 
comes, meaning it is rejected by the strong positive rela- 
tions in Panel A. In Panel B, we reject the no-reputation 
null for predicting 13-D and Ab Actions in part because our 
simulations reveal that, despite no true relation between r t 
and campaign outcomes, regressions with activist ﬁxed ef- 
fects have negative average coeﬃcients in simulated sam- 
ples. The reason is that these outcome variables are pos- 
itively correlated with innovations in r t , meaning regres- 
sions with activist ﬁxed effects are biased downward in 
ﬁnite samples. 20 This small-sample bias disappears with 
enough campaigns per activist. However, 94% of activists 
have 20 or fewer campaigns in our sample, making it acute 
in this setting. 
Panel A of Table 6 shows the full-information null 
hypothesis can ﬁt cross-activist differences in outcomes 
fairly well, though the relation between r t and campaign 
20 The technical reason for this bias is that these regressions fail 
the strict exogeneity condition discussed in Wooldridge (2010) and 
Grieser and Hadlock (2019) . 
50 T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 
Table 6 
Reputation and activist campaign outcomes. 
We present panel regressions using our model-based reputation measure r t to predict four dependent variables: 13-D , an indicator for whether there is a 
campaign initiation on a given activist-day; Ab Actions , the total number of abnormal activism-related corporate actions by target ﬁrms in the year following 
campaign initiation; CAR , the target’s [-1,1] market-adjusted return around the campaign initiation date and Proxy , an indicator for whether the campaign 
features a proxy ﬁght. In Column 3, we predict Ab Actions in the subsample of campaigns with Proxy = 0 . Panel A does not include activist ﬁxed effects, 
while Panel B does. Both Panels A and B show average coeﬃcients from the same regressions in samples simulated using the model under three null 
hypotheses: the full model, the no-reputation alternative model, and the full-information alternative model, all parameterized using the values in Table 2 . 
In Panel C, we show similar regressions, but include additional activist characteristics, which we describe in Appendix B , as controls. All regressions include 
year ﬁxed effects. Our sample for 13-D is 737,004 activist-days during 1999–2016. Our sample for the other variables is 2,434 campaigns initiated by hedge 
funds during 1999–2016. We present standard errors, which we cluster by activist, in parentheses. For each null, ∗∗∗ indicates we reject at the 1% level; ∗∗, 
5%; and ∗, 10%. 
Ab Actions 
13-D Ab Actions | Proxy = 0 CAR Proxy 
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) 
Panel A: Main regressions 
Data coeﬃcient 4.43 0.71 0.55 2.60 34.26 
Standard error (0.53) (0.18) (0.18) (0.70) (4.32) 
Simulated coeﬃcient (model null) 4.19 0.77 0.72 3.53 19.88 ∗∗∗
Simulated coeﬃcient (no reputation null) -0.02 ∗∗∗ -0.07 ∗∗∗ -0.03 ∗∗∗ 0.04 ∗∗∗ -4.10 ∗∗∗
Simulated coeﬃcient (full information null) 3.39 ∗∗ 0.72 0.59 3.25 33.08 
Panel B: Activist ﬁxed effects 
Data Coeﬃcient 1.59 -0.06 -0.06 0.88 7.86 
Standard error (0.38) (0.17) (0.20) (1.19) (6.62) 
Simulated coeﬃcient (model null) 2.13 -0.08 0.26 3.20 ∗ -0.33 
Simulated coeﬃcient (no reputation null) -3.05 ∗∗∗ -1.52 ∗∗∗ -0.58 ∗∗∗ 0.03 -1.03 
Simulated coeﬃcient (full information null) -2.64 ∗∗∗ -0.45 ∗∗ -0.27 0.02 -0.31 
Panel C: Robustness 
r t 2.82 ∗∗∗ 0.93 ∗∗∗ 0.74 ∗∗∗ 2.91 ∗∗ 40.04 ∗∗∗
(0.73) (0.23) (0.25) (1.22) (8.42) 
Past CAR 250 | Proxy 0.06 -0.16 -0.09 -0.41 0.06 
(0.14) (0.18) (0.19) (0.80) (5.56) 
Past CAR 250 | Hi Act 0.14 0.03 0.00 0.73 4.71 
(0.16) (0.17) (0.16) (1.13) (4.58) 
Past CAR 250 -0.01 -0.24 -0.24 -0.05 0.83 
(0.12) (0.17) (0.17) (1.25) (3.77) 
Log Portfolio Size 0.01 -0.00 0.00 0.04 -2.85 ∗∗∗
(0.02) (0.03) (0.03) (0.16) (0.77) 
Portfolio Turnover -0.20 ∗∗ -0.12 -0.08 -0.02 -1.54 
(0.08) (0.07) (0.08) (0.51) (2.35) 
Number of Prior Campaigns 0.06 ∗∗∗ -0.00 0.00 -0.01 -0.08 
(0.01) (0.00) (0.00) (0.02) (0.08) 
Stake Size -0.69 -0.08 0.43 -49.70 ∗∗∗
(0.54) (0.54) (3.94) (18.49) 
Top Investor Hedge Fund 0.02 0.10 0.14 -0.13 3.80 
(0.13) (0.09) (0.10) (0.64) (2.34) 
frequency is stronger in the data than this null pre- 
dicts. Consistent with our discussion of Table 2 , the full- 
information null is rejected by the within-activist relations 
we ﬁnd in Columns 1 and 2 of Panel B, which are signiﬁ- 
cantly larger than the negative coeﬃcients we ﬁnd in full- 
information simulations. The combined evidence in Panels 
A and B of Table 6 illustrate why the likelihood ratio test 
presented in Table 2 rejects the full-information alternative 
model in favor of our baseline model. While both models 
ﬁt many features of the data well, the full-information al- 
ternative struggles along more dimensions than our repu- 
tation model. The full-information null is rejected at the 
5% level in three of the speciﬁcations in Table 6 and the 
model null is rejected at the 5% level in only one. 
In Panel C of Table 6 , we include several time- 
varying activist characteristics as controls. Two variables, 
Prior Campaigns and Top HF , mimick the experience and 
reputation measures used in Boyson et al. (2016) and 
Krishnan et al. (2016) , respectively. Three other variables, 
Past CAR 250 | Proxy, Past CAR 250 | Hi Act , and Past CAR 250 , mea- 
sure activist-speciﬁc idea quality using long run target re- 
turns in past campaigns with P roxy = 1 , past campaigns 
with above median Ab Actions , and all past campaigns, re- 
spectively. The remaining controls represent potential con- 
founding effects for our results in Panel A; for example, 
the possibility that high r t activists are more successful be- 
cause they take larger positions in their target ﬁrms. We 
ﬁnd that the coeﬃcients on r t remain economically and 
statistically signiﬁcant in each regression, with the coeﬃ- 
cient magnitudes increasing in four of the ﬁve speciﬁca- 
tions. 
5.5. Counterfactuals 
Having analyzed the role of reputation in equilibrium 
activism, we now estimate how this equilibrium would 
T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 51 
Table 7 
Counterfactuals. 
We present average pre-opportunity reputation r t , equilibrium strategies, and payoffs for target shareholders and activists in our baseline model and three 
counterfactuals. In the no-reputation counterfactual, targets do not consider the activist’s past campaigns when deciding whether to choose Settle . In 
the no aggressive A counterfactual, there are no aggressive type activists. In the full information counterfactual, activists’ types are common knowledge. 
For our baseline model and each counterfactual, we simulate 25 thousand samples and compute average reputation prior to each campaign opportunity, 
equilibrium strategies, and payoffs to target shareholders and activists across all campaigns in the simulated samples, in basis points (bp).. 
Counterfactual 
Baseline No reputation No aggressive A Full information 
Pre-opportunity reputation r t (%) 
Cautious A 1.21 2.05 0.00 0.00 
Aggressive A 40.29 2.05 — 100.00  
All 2.00 2.05 0.00 2.05 
13-D (% of opportunities) 
Cautious A 8.73 5.43 4.16 4.16 
Aggressive A 38.62 15.82 — 35.89  
All 9.34 5.65 4.16 4.81 
Settle (% of campaigns) 
Cautious A 26.50 23.81 21.82 21.82 
Aggressive A 37.65 23.81 — 45.31  
All 27.44 23.81 21.82 22.31 
Fight (% of refusals) 
Cautious A 13.82 11.10 11.10 11.10 
Aggressive A 55.74 48.03 — 48.03  
All 16.85 11.86 11.10 11.86 
Target shareholders’ average payoff (bp per opportunity) 
Cautious A 21.19 11.60 8.41 8.41 
Aggressive A 185.11 63.28 — 170.05  
All 24.53 12.67 8.41 11.73 
Activists’ average net payoff (bp per opportunity) 
Cautious A 2.62 1.94 1.33 1.33 
Aggressive A 23.26 9.71 — 39.87  
All 3.04 2.10 1.33 2.12 
change in a world without reputation. 21 We consider three 
counterfactuals, each a variation of the static model de- 
scribed in Section 3.4 . The ﬁrst requires targets ignore past 
behavior and use r 0 as the probability that the activist 
is aggressive. In this no-reputation counterfactual, activists 
and targets play the same strategy in every campaign op- 
portunity; that is, the static equilibrium strategy when r 0 = 
2 . 05% . The second counterfactual we consider sets r 0 = 0 , 
removing the possibility of aggressive A from the model. In 
this no aggressive A counterfactual, cautious A and M play 
their zero-reputation strategies d caut ,0 , y 0 , and f caut ,0 . In the 
third counterfactual, M observes A ’s type directly, remov- 
ing the role for reputation and learning. In this full infor- 
mation counterfactual, the r t = 0 equilibrium prevails for 
all of cautious A ’s opportunities, and the r t = 1 equilibrium 
prevails for all of aggressive A ’s opportunities, neither of 
which have reputation building. 
We estimate equilibrium behavior and payoffs in the 
baseline model and each counterfactual by simulating 25 
thousand samples as detailed in Appendix D . Table 7 
presents average behavior at each stage and average pay- 
offs to target shareholders and activists per campaign 
21 This analysis differs from the hypothesis tests described in 
Section 5.1 because, instead of estimating a distinct parameterization that 
best ﬁts the data, we retain the relevant estimated parameters from our 
dynamic model and assess how outcomes change without reputation. 
opportunity. 22 We ﬁnd that cautious and aggressive A s 
choose 13-D less frequently in all three counterfactuals 
because they no longer have reputation-building motives. 
For cautious A , this effect is stronger in the counterfac- 
tuals with no aggressive A and full-information because 
M knows A is cautious and therefore infrequently settles. 
Even when cautious A ’s type remains unknown in the 
no-reputation counterfactual, they still initiate fewer cam- 
paigns than in our baseline model due to the absence of 
reputation-building incentives. 
Conditional on campaign initiation, we also ﬁnd that 
targets would be less likely to settle without reputation. 
In our baseline model, managers settle in 27.44% of cam- 
paigns, compared with 23.81%, 21.82%, and 22.31% in the 
three counterfactuals. Targets settle less frequently with- 
out reputation because activists ﬁght less frequently. For all 
three counterfactuals, because reputation-building incen- 
tives are absent, cautious A chooses Fight f caut, 0 = 11 . 10% 
of the time and aggressive A chooses Fight f agr, 0 = 48 . 03% 
of the time, both less than their likelihood of ﬁghting in 
the dynamic equilibrium. 
Combining these effects, Table 7 shows that average 
payoffs for target shareholders per campaign opportunity 
22 Because we only estimate the distribution of target managers’ cost of 
proxy ﬁghts ( ˜ F M ) relative to their net private costs of the project ( B − /Delta1), 
we cannot quantify managers’ payoffs in absolute terms. 
52 T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 
would decline by at least 48% in all three counterfactu- 
als. Target shareholders receive nothing if the project does 
not occur and a return of /Delta1if it does. Target sharehold- 
ers’ average payoff is therefore proportional to the proba- 
bility the project occurs, which requires that A chooses 13- 
D and either M chooses Settle or A chooses Fight . Because 
all three of these choices are less likely without reputation, 
Table 7 shows that for each type of activist, and overall, 
average target shareholder payoffs would decline without 
reputation. 
Average activist payoffs also decline without reputa- 
tion because activists extract fewer settlements. Cautious 
A s suffer more in the counterfactuals without aggressive A 
or with full information because M knows their type and 
therefore settles even less than in the no-reputation coun- 
terfactual. Aggressive A s, by contrast, beneﬁt from the full- 
information counterfactual because M knows their type 
and therefore chooses Settle more frequently. 
Comparing the average payoffs of activists and target 
shareholders illustrates how stark the free rider problem 
is in this setting. The private costs of activism are suﬃ- 
ciently large in our baseline estimate that activists’ average 
net returns per campaign opportunity are less than a ﬁfth 
of average returns for their targets. The size of these costs 
and their impact on the net performance of activist hedge 
funds is consistent with the evidence in Clifford (2008) , 
Brav et al. (2008) , and Gantchev (2013) . 
5.6. Robustness 
We conduct robustness tests by reestimating our model 
under a variety of alternative parameterizations, empirical 
implementations, and modeling assumptions. As detailed 
in Online Appendix E, we consider different values for ac- 
tivists’ discount factor ( δ) and the arrival rate of campaign 
opportunities ( λc ), a wider 20-day window for measuring 
the market’s reaction to campaign announcements ( CAR ), 
ﬁxed values for the action likelihoods in the absence of 
activism ( ˆ a ), random variations across campaigns in the 
expected return for target shareholders after a successful 
campaign ( /Delta1), and proxy ﬁghts succeeding only a fraction 
φ of the time. 
We ﬁnd that parameter estimates can sometimes vary 
due to changes in assumed parameters or model struc- 
ture. For example, increasing the campaign opportunity ar- 
rival rate λc results in proportionally smaller estimates of 
the baseline frequency with which activists choose 13-D 
( d caut ,0 ). Similarly, random variations in /Delta1serve as substi- 
tutes for random variation in campaign costs ( ˜ L ), resulting 
in higher estimates of their precision ( τL ). 
More important, we ﬁnd that our main economic 
results are consistent across alternative assumptions. 
Reputation-building incentives explain between 15% and 
30% of observed aggressive behavior, and without reputa- 
tion activists would create between 35%–60% less value for 
target shareholders. 23 The reason these effects are more 
consistent is they are identiﬁed from the changes in av- 
23 The only exception is if we decrease λc below the rate at which we 
observe the highest-reputation activists initiating campaigns (around ﬁve 
per year) which effectively forces reputation effects to be smaller. 
erage campaign frequency and outcomes as a function of 
reputation observed in the data. While the speciﬁc param- 
eters generating this increase can vary across speciﬁcation, 
the economic conclusion remains unchanged. 
6. Conclusion 
We argue that reputation for proxy ﬁghting helps ex- 
plain why activism is both common and successful de- 
spite the large private costs and infrequent proxy ﬁghts 
observed empirically. To support this claim, we estimate a 
dynamic model in which activists engage target ﬁrms in 
a series of campaign opportunities. Each target computes 
the activist’s reputation, deﬁned as the probability they 
are an aggressive type with a lower average cost of proxy 
ﬁghting. In our estimated model and empirical tests, we 
ﬁnd our model-based reputation measure r t signiﬁcantly 
predicts campaign frequency, market reactions, target re- 
sponses, and frequency of proxy ﬁghts. Using estimated 
parameters and the structure of the model, we ﬁnd that 
20% of observed campaign initiations and 19% of proxy 
ﬁghts are due to reputation-building incentives and that 
activism would produce 48% less value value for target 
shareholders in a counterfactual world without reputation. 
Activists in our model differ only by their average cost 
of proxy ﬁghting. While this allows us to focus succinctly 
on the effects of reputation for proxy ﬁghting, other forms 
of activist heterogeneity could give rise to reputations for 
frequent campaigning, identifying high-value projects, ne- 
gotiating advantageous settlements, and many other skills. 
Future research could examine these possibilities using a 
similar approach to this paper. More broadly, our method- 
ology could be used to estimate dynamic reputation mod- 
els in many areas of ﬁnance and economics. 
Appendix A. Model details 
A. 1 . Reputation dynamics between campaigns 
Between campaigns, r t evolves according to 
dr t = − λc (d agr (r t ) − d caut (r t )) r t (1 − r t ) 
λc (1 − d caut (r t ))(1 − r t ) + λc (1 − d agr (r t )) r t + (1 − λc ) 
dt 
   
decay due to absence of campaigns 
+ (r 0 − r t ) λr dt 
   
type resets 
, (A.1) 
The evolution due to type resets is the product of their 
arrival rate λr with the change in reputation that occurs 
conditional on arrival, r 0 − r t . The decay due to the absence 
of campaigns affects reputation in proportion to 
P (agr| r t , no camp. ) − r t 
= 
P ( no camp. | r t , agr) r t 
P ( no camp. | r t , agr) r t + P ( no camp. | r t , caut)(1 − r t ) 
(A.2) 
= [ (1 − d agr (r t )) λc + (1 − λc ) ] r t 
[ (1 − d agr (r t )) λc + (1 − λc ) ] r t + [ (1 − d caut (r t )) λc + (1 − λc ) ] (1 − r t ) − r t , 
(A.3) 
which simpliﬁes to the value given in Eq. (A.1) . 
T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 53 
Because we do not observe how long an activist is seek- 
ing campaign opportunities prior to their ﬁrst campaign, 
we do not know how much of their reputation evolves 
from r 0 prior to the ﬁrst campaign. We assume it evolves 
to r 0 , which is deﬁned so that the activist’s reputation con- 
ditional on initiating a campaign equals the unconditional 
reputation r 0 : 
P (μA = μagr | r 0 , 13-D ) = r 0 . (A.4) 
This is equivalent to assuming all activists receive a cam- 
paign opportunity with ˜ L = 0 on the ﬁrst day they appear 
in the sample, meaning the initiation of a ﬁrst campaign, 
unlike subsequent campaigns, does not affect reputation 
and so post-initiation reputation equals the unconditional 
reputation r 0 . 
A.2. Numeric solution and value function iteration 
We solve the model numerically using value function 
iteration on a 106 × 1 grid of r t : 
r ≡[ 0 , /Phi1( [ −6 , −5 , −4 , −3 . 5 , −3 . 43 , −3 . 36 , . . . , 3 . 36 , 
3 . 43 , 3 . 5 , 4 ] ) , 1 ] , (A.5) 
where /Phi1is the standard normal cumulative distribution 
function. We use a denser grid of r t near zero because very 
small r t are common in equilibrium. 
In specifying the cutoff for ˜ F M in Section 3 , we omit the 
formula for p f ( r t ), the probability A chooses Proxy condi- 
tional on pre-campaign reputation r t and choosing 13-D , 
but not conditional on A ’s type. This formula is 
p f (r t ) = 
r t d agr (r t ) f agr (r t ) + (1 − r t ) d caut (r t ) f caut (r t ) 
r t d agr (r t ) + (1 − r t ) d caut (r t ) 
(A.6) 
We use value function iteration to ﬁnd equilibrium 
strategies d i , y , and f i along with value functions V i in four 
steps. 
1. Find d i , y , and f i assuming a ﬂat value function V i (r) = 
0 by numerically searching for values that satisfy 
Eqs. (11) , (13) , and (15) . 
2. Find the reputation updating function both between 
campaigns and after campaigns. Eq. (A.1) speciﬁes how 
r t evolves between campaigns given model parameters 
and equilibrium d i ( r t ). After an observed campaign at 
t , reputation jumps to r t+ according to Eqs. (7) and 
(8) combined with Bayes’ rule as follows: 
r t+ | (P roxy = 1 , r t = r) 
= 
rd agr (r) f agr (r) 
rd agr (r) f agr (r) + (1 − r ) d caut (r ) f caut (r ) 
(A.7) 
and r t+ | (P roxy = 0 , r t = r) 
= 
rd agr (r) P (Set t le | a , r) 
rd agr (r) + (1 − r ) d caut (r ) 
+ 
rd agr (r)(1 − f agr (r)) P (F ol d| a , r t ) 
rd agr (r)(1 − f agr (r)) + (1 − r ) d caut (r )(1 − f caut (r)) 
. 
(A.8) 
The posterior probabilities a campaign was settled 
given P roxy = 0 are 
P (Set t le | a , r t = r) 
= 
P (a | Set t le, r) P (Set t le | r) 
P (a | Set t le, r) P (Set t le | r) + P (a | F ol d, r) P (F ol d| r) 
(A.9) 
and P (F ol d| a , r, = r) = 1 − P (Set t le | a , r) , (A.10) 
which can be computed using Eq. (7) combined with 
equilibrium strategies. 
3. Find V i using 
V i = E ( /Pi1i ) + δ1 / 365 /Sigma1i V i (A.11) 
⇒  V i = 
(
I 106 − δ1 / 365 /Sigma1i 
)−1 
E ( /Pi1i ) , (A.12) 
where V i is a 106 × 1 vector of V i ( r t ) values for r t ∈ r , 
E ( /Pi1i ) is a 106 × 1 vector expected per day proﬁts for 
A with type i, δis the annualized discount factor, /Sigma1i is 
a 106 × 106 transition probability matrix describing the 
likelihood of reputation transitions in a single day, and 
I 106 is the identity matrix. We compute this transition 
probability matrix using Eq. (A.1) discretized daily, the 
distribution of possible observed outcomes Proxy and a 
conditional on a campaign occurring [from Eq. (7) ], and 
the post-campaign reputations r t each a implies (from 
Step 2). 
4. Repeat Steps 1–3 using the value function found in 
Step 3 and compare the resulting value function with 
the last one found. Repeat this iteration until the sum 
across r of changes in the value function is less than 
0.01. 
Appendix B. Variables deﬁnitions 
B.1. Activist reputation and related measures 
These variables are constructed using form 13-D and 
Proxy ﬁlings data from the SEC’s Edgar database which we 
access via the Wharton Research Data Services (WRDS) SEC 
Analytics tool, SharkWatch, and our estimation, which we 
describe in Section 4.3 . 
Past CAR 250 | Proxy is the average CAR 250 in all the ac- 
tivist’s prior campaigns with P roxy = 1 and zero if the ac- 
tivist has no such campaigns. 
Past CAR 250 | Hi Act is the average CAR 250 in all the ac- 
tivist’s prior campaigns with Ab Actions above the full- 
sample median and zero if the activist has no such cam- 
paigns. 
Past CAR 250 is the average CAR 250 in all the activist’s 
prior campaigns and zero if the activist has no prior cam- 
paigns. 
Prior Campaigns is the number of previous activist cam- 
paigns initiated by the activist. This measure approximates 
the experience measure in Boyson et al. (2016) . 
r t is our estimate of the activist’s pre-campaign reputa- 
tion, described in Section 4.3 . 
r t+ is our estimate of the activist’s post-campaign rep- 
utation, described in Section 4.3 . 
54 T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 
Top HF is an indicator equal to one for activist hedge 
funds ranked in the top quintile by the trailing year 
average position size for all activist campaigns. This 
measure approximates the main reputation measure in 
Krishnan et al. (2016) . 
B.2. Other activist characteristics 
These variables are constructed using data from CRSP 
and Thomson Reuters. For the small minority of activists 
with no precise date and mgrno identiﬁer match, we use 
data from an additional one quarter prior or one quarter 
later. 
Log Portfolio Size is the log of the total market cap of 
all positions, from Form 13-F, held by the activist at the 
quarter-end prior to the initiation of each campaign. 
Portfolio Turnover is the trailing one-year average quar- 
terly portfolio turnover, as deﬁned in Gaspar et al. (2005) . 
Stake Size is the share of the target ﬁrm’s shares out- 
standing held by the activist as of the ﬁrst quarter after the 
initiation of each campaign, from Form 13-F. In a handful 
of cases with no match, we assign the sample average of 
roughly 7%. 
B.3. Activist campaign outcome measures 
These variables are constructed using Form 8-K data 
from Capital IQ Key Developments, Form 13-D and Proxy 
ﬁlings data from the SEC’s EDGAR database, which we ac- 
cess via the WRDS SEC Analytics tool, and cash ﬂow and 
balance sheet data from Compustat, CRSP, and SharkWatch. 
13-D is an indicator equal to one on activist-days in 
which a campaign is initiated. 
Ab Actions is Actions minus ˆ Actions . 
Actions is the sum of Acq, Board, CEO, Payout , and Proxy . 
ˆ Actions is the sum of predicted values for Acq, Board, 
CEO, Payout , and Proxy in the absence of activism, com- 
puted as detailed in Appendix C . 
Acq is an indicator equal to one if the target ﬁrm an- 
nounces a merger or acquisition, or announces that it 
seeks to sell or divest a business, within the year follow- 
ing the initiation of each campaign, which we deﬁne using 
Capital IQ codes 1 and 80. 
Board is an indicator equal to one if a member of target 
ﬁrm’s board of directors departs or a new director is ap- 
pointed due to activism, within the year following the ini- 
tiation of each campaign, as indicated by Capital IQ code 
172 or SharkWatch. 
CAR is the three-day [-1,+1] market-adjusted return for 
the target ﬁrm around the day in which each activist cam- 
paign is initiated. 
CAR 250 is the market-adjusted return in days [-10,+250] 
for the target ﬁrm around the day in which each activist 
campaign is initiated. 
CEO is an indicator equal to one if the CEO of the tar- 
get ﬁrm departs within the year following the initiation of 
each campaign, which we deﬁne using Capital IQ code 101 
or SharkWatch. 
Payout is an indicator for a company’s quarterly payout 
(dividends plus stock repurchases) increasing by more than 
1% of assets (versus the prior year) within the year follow- 
ing the initiation of each campaign, which we measure us- 
ing ﬁnancial statement data from Compustat. 
Proxy is an indicator equal to one if the activist initiates 
a proxy ﬁght in the year following campaign initiation, as 
detailed in Section 4.1 . 
Reorg is an indicator equal to one if the target ﬁrm an- 
nounces a reorganization, change in strategic direction, or 
discontinuation or downsizing of business, within the year 
following the initiation of each campaign, which we deﬁne 
using Capital IQ codes 21 and 63 or SharkWatch. 
B.4. Target ﬁrm characteristics 
These variables are constructed using data from Com- 
pustat, CRSP, and Thomson Reuters. 
One-Year Return is the cumulative total return over the 
year prior to the campaign initiation date. 
Book-to-Market is the equity book-to-market ratio: book 
equity from Compustat divided by CRSP market capitaliza- 
tion. 
Capex/Assets is the trailing year’s total capital expendi- 
tures from the cash ﬂow statement divided by lagged total 
assets. 
EBIT/Assets is the trailing year’s total earnings before in- 
terest and taxes from divided by lagged total assets. 
Log Size is the natural log of CRSP market capitalization. 
Net Leverage is total debt, net of cash, divided by lagged 
total assets. 
Inst Investors is the number of 13-F ﬁlers holding the 
stock in the most recent quarter. 
Payout/Assets is the trailing year’s total dividend pay- 
ments and stock repurchases (from the cash ﬂow state- 
ment) divided by lagged total assets. 
Appendix C. Target ﬁrm actions propensity measure 
In this Appendix, we outline the construction of ˆ a i , our 
estimate of the likelihood action i would occur in a certain 
ﬁrm-year in the absence of an activist campaign. 
We calculate ˆ a i for each campaign as the ﬁtted value 
from a cross-sectional regression predicting future corpo- 
rate actions using observables during the quarter t when 
the campaign is initiated. We estimate this regression on 
a wider sample that includes all publicly traded ﬁrms 
in the intersection of the CRSP and Compustat panels. 
Eq. (C.1) outlines each regression: 
a j,i,t+4 = αi,t + γi,t · X j,t + ϵj,i,t+4 , (C.1) 
where a j,i,t+4 is action indicator i (one of Reorg, Payout, 
CEO, Board , and Acq ) measured in the year following quar- 
ter t for ﬁrm j and X j,t is a vector of company character- 
istics measured in quarter t: Log Size j,t , EBIT/Assets j,t , Net 
Leverage j,t , Payout/Assets j,t , Capex/Assets j,t , Book-to-Market j,t , 
Inst Ownership j,t , and One-Year Return j,t . 24 
Online Appendix Table OA1 shows the average coeﬃ- 
cients across each of our 56 quarterly cross-sectional pre- 
dictive regressions, with t -statistics calculated using the 
24 We deﬁne in detail how we calculate each of the actions and charac- 
teristics in Appendix B . 
T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 55 
cross-quarter standard deviations in coeﬃcients in a man- 
ner similar to Fama and MacBeth (1973) . 
Appendix D. Estimation 
D.1. Likelihood function details 
We compute the likelihood function for each observed 
campaign as 
L c (θ) = L ga p 
c (θ) · L 13 − D 
c (θ) · L car 
c (θ) · L out come 
c (θ) . (D.1) 
L ga p 
c (θ) is the probability A does not initiate another 
campaign until the date of their next observed campaign. 
Writing t for the date of this campaign and d for the num- 
ber of days until A ’s next campaign occurs, we have 
L ga p 
c (θ) = 
t+ d−1 ∑ 
s = t+1 
[(
1 − λc 
365 
)
+ 
λc 
365 
(r s (1 − d agr (r s )) 
+ (1 − r s )(1 − d caut (r s ))) 
]
, (D.2) 
where r s is A ’s reputation on day s . If c is A ’s last campaign 
in our sample, we set d equal to the smaller of 365 and the 
number of days until our sample ends on December 31st, 
2016. 25 
L 13 − D 
c (θ) is the probability A receives a campaign op- 
portunity and chooses 13-D on date t , given pre-campaign 
reputation r t , which satisﬁes 
L 13 − D 
c (θ) = 
λc 
365 
(r t d agr (r t ) + (1 − r t ) d caut (r t )) . (D.3) 
L car 
c (θ) is the probability of observed market returns 
CAR given pre-campaign reputation r t and A ’s choice of 13- 
D : 
L car 
c (θ) = φ
(
CAR − P ( Settle or Fight | r t , 13-D ) 
σcar 
)
(D.4) 
and P ( Settle or Fight | r t , 13-D ) = y (r t ) + (1 − y (r t ) p f (r t ) , 
(D.5) 
where φ is the PDF of the standard normal distribution. 
Finally, L out come 
c (θ) is the probability of observed out- 
come o given pre-campaign reputation r t and A ’s choice of 
13-D : 
L out come 
c (θ) 
= 
{ 
(1 − y (r t )) p f (r t ) if P roxy = 1 
y (r t ) P (a | Settle ) + (1 − y (r t )) 
× (1 − p f (r t )) P (a | Fold ) if P roxy = 0 
(D.6) 
D.2. Mapping between μ and zero-reputation probabilities 
To ease the interpretation of our model’s parameters, 
we map means of log costs μL , μM , μagr , and μcaut to what 
25 This approach allows us to ignore any days before an activist’s ﬁrst 
campaign and limit the potential impact of long absences after an ac- 
tivist’s last campaign in our sample, perhaps because they exit activism 
altogether, to a maximum of 365 days. 
they imply for strategies when reputation equals zero. This 
mapping is: 
f caut, 0 = /Phi1( τA ( log (/Delta1) − μcaut ) ) , (D.7) 
f agr, 0 = /Phi1( τA ( log (/Delta1) − μagr ) ) , (D.8) 
y 0 = 1 − /Phi1
(
τM 
(
log 
(
1 − f caut, 0 
f caut, 0 
)
− μM 
))
, (D.9) 
d caut, 0 = /Phi1(τL ( log ( L caut, 0 ) − μL ) 
)
, (D.10) 
and L caut, 0 = y 0 /Delta1+ (1 − y 0 ) f caut, 0 
(/Delta1− E 
[˜ F A | ˜ F A < /Delta1, μA = μcaut 
])
. (D.11) 
D.3. Simulating samples 
Our analyses in Tables 6 and 7 use samples simulated 
from the model. For a given parameterization of the model 
θ, and given restrictions on the information set, we com- 
pute equilibrium strategies and reputation dynamics as de- 
scribed in Section 3.3 and Appendix A . With these in hand, 
we simulate samples using the following sixt-step proce- 
dure. 
1. Create a new activist A ( i ) with initial type randomly as- 
signed based on the unconditional probability r 0 and 
birth date t 0 randomly assigned within our sample pe- 
riod. We assume A ( i ) receives a campaign opportunity 
on t 0 , always chooses 13-D in this case, and has repu- 
tation conditional on ﬁling a 13-D equal to r 0 . 
2. Draw random type reset dates according to rate λr , and 
at each date re-assign a new randomly drawn type, 
forming a complete path for the A ( i ) ’s true type. 
3. Draw random campaign opportunity dates according to 
rate λc . 
4. Starting with the ﬁrst campaign at t 0 , randomly draw 
costs ˜ L , ˜ F M , and ˜ F A and compute the resulting cam- 
paign outcome. From this outcome, draw random a us- 
ing Eq. (7) . Then compute post-campaign reputation r t+ 
and, based on Eq. (A.1) , pre-campaign reputation r t for 
the next campaign opportunity. 
5. Repeat Step 4 for all campaign opportunity dates drawn 
in Step 3. 
6. Repeat Steps 1–5, creating new activists and record- 
ing the timing and outcome of their campaigns, until a 
sample is generated matching the size of our empirical 
sample. 
References 
Ackermann, C. , McEnally, R. , Ravenscraft, D. , 1999. The performance of 
hedge funds: risk, return, and incentives. J. Finance 54 (3), 833–874 . 
Admati, A.R. , Pﬂeiderer, P. , 2009. The “wall street walk” and shareholder 
activism: exit as a form of voice. Rev. Financ. Stud. 22 (7), 2445–2485 . 
Aghion, P. , Bolton, P. , Tirole, J. , 2004. Exit options in corporate ﬁnance: 
liquidity versus incentives. Rev. Finance 8 (3), 327–353 . 
Appel, I.R. , Gormley, T.A. , Keim, D.B. , 2018. Standing on the shoulders of 
giants: The effect of passive investors on activism. Rev. Financ. Stud. 
32 (7), 2720–2774 . 
Back, K. , Collin-Dufresne, P. , Fos, V. , Li, T. , Ljungqvist, A. , 2018. Activism, 
strategic trading, and liquidity. Econometrica 86 (4), 1431–1463 . 
56 T.L. Johnson and N. Swem / Journal of Financial Economics 139 (2021) 29–56 
Bebchuk, L.A. , Brav, A. , Jiang, W. , Keusch, T. , 2020. Dancing with activists. 
J. Finance. Econ. 137 (1), 1–41 . 
Becht, M. , Franks, J. , Grant, J. , Wagner, H.F. , 2017. Returns to hedge fund 
activism: an international study. Rev. Financ. Stud. 30 (9), 2933–2971 . 
Boyson, N.M. , Gantchev, N. , Shivdasani, A. , 2017. Activism mergers. J. Fi- 
nanc. Econ. 126 (1), 54–73 . 
Boyson, N.M. , Ma, L. , Mooradian, R.M. , 2016. How does past experience 
impact hedge fund activism?. Northeastern University, Boston, MA . 
Unpublished working paper. 
Bradley, M. , Brav, A. , Goldstein, I. , Jiang, W. ,2 0 1 0 . Activist arbitrage: a 
study of open-ending attempts of closed-end funds. J. Financ. Econ. 
95 (1), 1–19 . 
Brav, A. , Dasgupta, A. , Mathews, R.D. , 2016. Wolf pack activism. Cornell 
University, Ithaca, NY . Unpublished working paper. 
Brav, A. , Jiang, W. , Kim, H. , 2010. Hedge fund activism: a review. Found. 
Trends Finance 4 (3), 185–246 . 
Brav, A. , Jiang, W. , Kim, H. , 2015. The real effects of hedge fund activism: 
productivity, asset allocation, and labor outcomes. Rev. Financ. Stud. 
28 (10), 2723–2769 . 
Brav, A. , Jiang, W. , Ma, S. , Tian, X. , 2018. How does hedge fund activism 
reshape corporate innovation? J. Financ. Econ. 130 (2), 237–264 . 
Brav, A. , Jiang, W. , Partnoy, F. , Thomas, R. , 2008. Hedge fund activism, 
corporate governance, and ﬁrm performance. J. Finance 63 (4), 
1729–1775 . 
Burkart, M. , Gromb, D. , Panunzi, F. , 1997. Large shareholders, monitoring, 
and the value of the ﬁrm. Quart. J. Econ. 112 (3), 693–728 . 
Chemmanur, T.J. , Fulghieri, P. , 1994. Investment bank reputation, informa- 
tion production, and ﬁnancial intermediation. J. Finance 49 (1), 57–79 . 
Clifford, C.P. , 2008. Value creation or destruction? hedge funds as share- 
holder activists. J. Corporate Finance 14 (4), 323–336 . 
Collin-Dufresne, P. , Fos, V. , 2015. Do prices reveal the presence of in- 
formed trading? J. Finance 70 (4), 1555–1582 . 
Corum, A .A . , 2018. Activist settlements. Cornell University, Ithaca, NY . Un- 
published working paper 
Corum, A .A . , Levit, D. , 2019. Corporate control activism. J. Financ. Econ. 
133 (1), 1–17 . 
DeAngelo, H. , DeAngelo, L. , Whited, T.M. , 2011. Capital structure dynamics 
and transitory debt. J. Financ. Econ. 99 (2), 235–261 . 
Denes, M.R. , Karpoff, J.M. , McWilliams, V.B. , 2017. Thirty years of share- 
holder activism: a survey of empirical research. J. Corporate Finance 
44, 405–424 . 
Diamond, D.W. , 1989. Reputation acquisition in debt markets. J. Polit. 
Econ. 97 (4), 828–862 . 
Dimopoulos, T. , Sacchetto, S. , 2014. Preemptive bidding, target resistance, 
and takeover premiums. J. Financ. Econ. 114 (3), 4 4 4–470 . 
Fama, E.F. , MacBeth, J.D. , 1973. Risk, return, and equilibrium: empirical 
tests. J. Polit. Econ. 81 (3), 607–636 . 
Fos, V. , Tsoutsoura, M. , 2014. Shareholder democracy in play: career con- 
sequences of proxy contests. J. Financ. Econ. 114 (2), 316–340 . 
Fudenberg, D. , Levine, D.K. , 1989. Reputation and equilibrium selection in 
games with a patient player. Econometrica 57 (4), 759–778 . 
Fudenberg, D. , Levine, D.K. , 1992. Maintaining a reputation when strate- 
gies are imperfectly observed. Rev. Econ. Stud. 59 (3), 561–579 . 
Gantchev, N. , 2013. The costs of shareholder activism: evidence from a 
sequential decision model. J. Financ. Econ. 107 (3), 610–631 . 
Gantchev, N. , Gredil, O. , Jotikasthira, C. , 2019. Governance under the 
gun: spillover effects of hedge fund activism. Rev. Finance 23 (6), 
1031–1068 . 
Gaspar, J.-M. , Massa, M. , Matos, P. , 2005. Shareholder investment horizons 
and the market for corporate control. J. Financ. Econ. 76 (1), 135–165 . 
Glover, B. , 2016. The expected cost of default. J. Financ. Econ. 119 (2), 
284–299 . 
Gow, I.D. , Shin, S.-P.S. , Srinivasan, S. , 2014. Consequences to directors 
of shareholder activism. Harvard University, Cambridge, MA . Unpub- 
lished Working Paper 
Grieser, W.D. , Hadlock, C.J. , 2019. Panel-data estimation in ﬁnance: 
testable assumptions and parameter (in)consistency. J. Financ. Quant. 
Anal. 54 (1), 1–29 . 
Kreps, D.M. , Wilson, R. , 1982. Reputation and imperfect information. J. 
Econ. Theory 27 (2), 253–279 . 
Krishnan, C. , Partnoy, F. , Thomas, R.S. , 2016. The second wave of hedge 
fund activism: The importance of reputation, clout, and expertise. J. 
Corporate Finance 40, 296–314 . 
Levit, D. , 2018. Soft shareholder activism. Rev. Financ. Stud. 32 (7), 
2775–2808 . 
Li, S. , Whited, T.M. , Wu, Y. , 2016. Collateral, taxes, and leverage. Rev. Fi- 
nanc. Stud. 29 (6), 1453–1500 . 
Maug, E. , 1998. Large shareholders as monitors: is there a trade-off be- 
tween liquidity and control? J. Finance 53 (1), 65–98 . 
Milgrom, P. , Roberts, J. , 1982. Predation, reputation, and entry deterrence. 
J. Econ. Theory 27 (2), 280–312 . 
Morellec, E. , Nikolov, B. , Schürhoff, N. , 2012. Corporate governance and 
capital structure dynamics. J. Finance 67 (3), 803–848 . 
Nikolov, B. , Whited, T.M. , 2014. Agency conﬂicts and cash: estimates from 
a dynamic model. J. Finance 69 (5), 1883–1921 . 
Schroth, E. , Suarez, G.A. , Taylor, L.A. , 2014. Dynamic debt runs and ﬁnan- 
cial fragility: evidence from the 2007 ABCP crisis. J. Financ. Econ. 112 
(2), 164–189 . 
Starks, L.T. , 1987. Performance incentive fees: an agency theoretic ap- 
proach. J. Financ. Quant. Anal. 22 (1), 17–32 . 
Strebulaev, I.A. , Whited, T.M. , 2012. Dynamic models and structural esti- 
mation in corporate ﬁnance. Found. Trends Finance 6 (1–2), 1–163 . 
Stulz, R.M. , 2007. Hedge funds: past, present, and future. J. Econ. Perspect. 
21 (2), 175–194 . 
Taylor, L.A. , 2010. Why are CEOs rarely ﬁred? evidence from structural es- 
timation. J. Finance 65 (6), 2051–2087 . 
Warusawitharana, M. , 2015. Research and development, proﬁts, and ﬁrm 
value: a structural estimation. Quant. Econ. 6 (2), 531–565 . 
Wilks, S.S. , 1938. The large-sample distribution of the likelihood ratio for 
testing composite hypotheses. Ann. Math. Statistics 9 (1), 60–62 . 
Wooldridge, J.M. , 2010. Econometric Analysis of Cross Section and Panel 
Data. MIT Press, Cambridge, MA. . 