THE JOURNAL OF FINANCE • VOL LIII, NO. 1 • FEBRUARY 1998




             Ownership Structure, Speculation,
              and Shareholder Intervention

                       CHARLES KAHN and ANDREW WINTON*


                                         ABSTRACT
      An institution holding shares in a firm can use information about the firm both for
      trading (“speculation”) and for deciding whether to intervene to improve firm per-
      formance. Intervention increases the value of the institution’s existing sharehold-
      ings, but intervention only increases the institution’s trading profits if it enhances
      the precision of the institution’s information relative to that of uninformed traders.
      Thus, the ability to speculate can increase or decrease institutional intervention.
      We examine key factors that affect the intervention decision, the usefulness of
      “short-swing” provisions and restricted shares in encouraging institutional inter-
      vention, and implications for ownership structure across different firms.



INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS HOLD an ever-greater fraction of Corporate America’s
equity. Traditionally, these institutions were “stock pickers” who tried to beat
the market through trading; if a firm whose stock they held seemed headed
for trouble, these investors headed for the door (“the Wall Street rule”). More
recently, some of these institutions have been using the ownership rights
attached to their shares to pressure firms to act in the shareholders’ inter-
est. Some have even argued that there is a synergy between gathering in-
formation for use in trading shares (“speculation”) and intelligently pressuring
firms to improve performance (“intervention”). We argue that these motives
can also conflict. Analyzing these motives allows us to predict which firms
are most likely to attract institutional intervention, which in turn has cross-
sectional implications for firm ownership structure.
   Recent examples suggest that institutional investors with large stakes some-
times intervene and sometimes follow the Wall Street rule, so that there is
indeed a choice to be studied. In the early 1990s, there was a wave of activ-
ism by a variety of large institutional investors, among them CalPERS, the
California public employees pension fund, Putnam Management, a mutual
fund manager, and J.P. Morgan, a bank holding company.1 These institu-

   * Kahn is at the College of Commerce and Business Administration, University of Illinois at
Urbana–Champaign, and Winton is at the J.L. Kellogg Graduate School of Management, North-
western University. This paper is a substantial revision of our earlier paper entitled “Owner-
ship Structure, Liquidity Demand, and Shareholder Monitoring.” In revising this version, we
are grateful to Mike Fishman, Kathleen Hagerty, Debbie Lucas, Raghu Rajan, René Stulz (the
editor), and an anonymous referee for comments and suggestions. Winton thanks the Banking
Research Center at Northwestern University and the University of Rome “Tor Vergata” Finan-
cial Conference for research support. All mistakes remain our own responsibility.
   1
     See “Shareholders call the plays,” Economist, April 24, 1993.

                                               99
                                                                                                 15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
100                             The Journal of Finance

tions lobbied for the removal of CEOs at several large, poorly performing
firms, including Kodak, IBM, Westinghouse, Borden, American Express, and
GM. In the mid 1990s, Fidelity Investment’s Magellan mutual fund began to
accumulate large positions in a number of high-technology stocks, many of
them smaller firms: by the end of March 1995, 49 percent of Magellan’s
holdings were stakes of 5 percent or more in the target firms’ shares. It
would seem that Fidelity was well-placed to exert influence in these firms if
matters started to deteriorate. Yet in late 1995, Magellan reduced its tech-
nology holdings from 45 percent to 8.5 percent just in advance of a downturn
in those stocks.2
   More generally, suppose that an institution learns that a firm whose shares
it holds is doing poorly and might benefit from a change in direction. If the
institution’s position (possibly in coalition with other institutions) is large
enough, it might be able to effect such a change, albeit at some cost in time
and effort. Knowing that the market price doesn’t yet reflect this informa-
tion, the institution could buy additional shares, profiting from the impact
its subsequent intervention will have on the additional shares it has bought
as well as on its existing holdings. On the other hand, the institution could
sell its stake (and perhaps go short shares), saving the cost of intervention
and profiting from advance knowledge that the firm will do badly. Thus, the
ability to speculate may lead to “cut-and-run” behavior—the Wall Street rule—
and this possibility continues to concern many commentators, such as Bhide
(1993) and Roe (1994).
   The institution’s decision will of course depend on its payoffs: it will in-
tervene if that is more profitable than pure speculation. In part, the insti-
tution must examine the expected impact of intervention on its existing stake
in the firm, less the costs of such intervention. Since an increase in the
institution’s existing stake in the firm increases its share of any improve-
ment in firm performance, this “direct impact” of intervention should also
increase with the institution’s stake.
   However, the institution must also consider how intervention affects its
profits from trading on private information. By increasing the odds that the
firm will do well, intervention increases the probability that the institution
buys ahead of good outcomes and decreases the probability that it sells ahead
of bad ones. Whether expected trading profits increase or decrease depends
on whether intervention increases or decreases the value of the institution’s
information relative to that of uninformed traders. For example, if the mar-
ket believes that the firm is likely to do badly, intervening pushes the firm’s
return in the unexpected direction, which tends to increase the institution’s
trading profits. But if the market believes the firm is likely to do well, in-
tervention only reaffirms these beliefs, while not intervening and letting the
firm do badly leads to the less expected outcome. In this case, intervention

  2
     See Floyd Norris (May 21, 1995), and David J. Morrow (February 10, 1996). In at least one
case (Micron Technology), there were accusations that Jeffrey Vinik, Magellan’s fund manager,
had given positive interviews about the firm’s prospects that were published while he was
selling off his position—see Robert McGough (December 15, 1995).
                                                                                                   15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
               Ownership Structure, Speculation, and Intervention                          101

tends to decrease trading profits, and an institution whose stake in the firm
seems more than large enough to influence management may instead choose
to sell out if it gets advance notice of a problem.
   Thus, if we are to predict which firms an institution is most likely to inter-
vene in, we must look at not only the size of the institution’s stake, but also
firm-specific factors that influence the magnitude and sign of intervention’s im-
pact on the institution’s trading profits (henceforth, “trading impact”). For ex-
ample, although the institution’s stake may give it better access to management
and a better sense of the firm’s overall direction, it is unlikely to be the only
investor (“speculator”) looking to gather information about the firm and trade
on it. Because other speculators will acquire information as long as they ex-
pect to at least break even, their marginal cost of gathering information limits
the size of the institution’s trading profits. In firms where information is dif-
ficult to gather—smaller, younger, or other less well-known firms—the effec-
tive barrier to entry is high, and trading profits may loom large in the institution’s
decision. By contrast, for large, well-established “blue-chip” firms, public cov-
erage may make the cost of information low, reducing the importance of trad-
ing profits in the institution’s decision.
   Similarly, “intervention” can vary both in its expected impact on the firm
and in the speed with which its success or failure becomes apparent. For
example, spinning off a money-losing, unrelated division to an acquirer with
the right managerial expertise is quite likely to improve matters, in contrast
to replacing a somewhat below-average CEO. Thus, the spin-off will have a
greater effect on the value of the institution’s existing stake (a higher “direct
impact”), and it will have a greater impact on the institution’s trading profits—
for good or ill. The results of a policy change may take more time to resolve
in a young, rapidly evolving industry than in a mature, stable one; if so,
intervention’s effect on trading profits will be more negative in the younger
industry, because the institution exchanges relatively precise information
(the firm is doing badly) for less precise information (the firm may do well).
   These results are broadly consistent with the two examples given at the
start of this paper. In the cases of shareholder activism in the early 1990s,
the targets were large, well-established firms that had performed badly for
years, with relatively clear inefficiencies and mistakes. Thus, the trading
impact of intervention would probably be positive, and might in any case be
of secondary importance for such well-followed firms. By contrast, in 1995,
the Magellan Fund’s stakes were concentrated in younger, high-tech firms at
a time when (partly because of Magellan’s positions) technology stocks reached
record highs. With high market expectations and a young industry where
the impact of outside intervention might be less clear, the trading impact of
intervention was likely to be negative and relatively large in size.3

   3
     More support for this view comes from a 1993 interview with Robert Pozen, Fidelity’s gen-
eral counsel: “The times when we become most activist are when we are drawn into it, either
because people propose things that we think are not in the interests of shareholders, or because
companies have such a low level of management that we almost feel we have gone beyond the
pale with our investment.” [Emphasis added.] (Myron Magnet, March 8, 1993, p. 60)
                                                                                                  15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
102                             The Journal of Finance

   Our model also has implications for ownership structure. Diversification,
liquidity, or regulatory concerns may impose costs on large institutional hold-
ings. Thus, the greatest gains from a large institutional position should be
found in firms where the threshold for intervention is lowest: for example,
those where the odds of success without outside intervention are viewed as
low and the gains to potential monitoring or intervention are most clear-cut,
such as firms in mature industries with generally well-understood opera-
tions. These results are particularly relevant for an initial owner who wishes
to maximize proceeds from selling off its ownership stake: for an example,
an entrepreneur or venture capitalist seeking to cash out its stake, or a
government seeking to privatize a state-owned firm.
   Furthermore, firms may wish to privately place restricted shares with in-
stitutions: because such shares are harder to sell, cut-and-run behavior is
reduced, and intervention becomes more attractive. Our analysis suggests
that the incentives to do this will be highest in those firms for which trading
profits loom largest—i.e., those where other speculators face high costs of
gathering information. By contrast, “short-swing” rules requiring that large
shareholders forfeit short-run trading profits are less likely to be useful in
enhancing intervention: such rules make any trading less attractive, whether
it is linked to cut-and-run behavior or to buying more shares so as to take
advantage of intervention.
   Several earlier papers have focused on the positive externality that a large
shareholder’s monitoring creates. Shleifer and Vishny (1986) show how an
active and anonymous stock market may make it difficult to assemble a
large position because of holdout problems, and Huddart (1993) and Admati,
Pfleiderer, and Zechner (1994) show how such a market may induce an al-
ready large shareholder to sell rather than incur the cost of monitoring.
Stoughton and Zechner (1996) show how the holdout problem can be par-
tially overcome at the time of an IPO by underpricing shares and allocating
a large block to a large shareholder. In these papers, liquidity traders and
other informed traders are absent, and the only private information that the
large shareholder has is its decision on whether to monitor.4
   Most closely related to our work is that of Maug (1998), who also analyzes
an institutional investor’s intervention decision when the institution’s pri-
vate knowledge of its decision may allow it to earn trading profits at the
expense of liquidity traders. Although the two papers begin with the same
problem, the modeling assumptions are somewhat different, reflecting a dif-
ference in focus.
   Maug’s primary goal is to see how increased liquidity trading affects an
institution’s incentives to intervene when the institution acquires its initial

   4
     Other recent work on ownership structure includes Bolton and von Thadden (1998) and
Pagano and Röell (1996) who examine the relative pros and cons of concentrated versus dis-
persed ownership shares, and Burkart, Gromb, and Panunzi (1997), who examine the possible
disincentives that concentrated ownership can have for managerial performance. Other related
work includes the extensive literature on the pros and cons of insider trading, such as Ausubel
(1990), Leland (1992), Fishman and Hagerty (1992), and Bernhardt, Hollifield, and Hughson
(1995).
                                                                                   15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
            Ownership Structure, Speculation, and Intervention              103

stake on the open market. He shows that increased liquidity trading may
actually increase the institution’s desire to acquire a large initial stake and
intervene. Intuitively, with no liquidity trading, the holdout problem of Gross-
man and Hart (1980) applies: small shareholders’ reservation price reflects
any benefits of intervention, so the institution cannot recoup its costs of
intervention. Fear of trading at a loss to meet future liquidity needs reduces
small shareholders’ reservation price, making it more attractive for the in-
stitution to acquire shares.
   By contrast, we focus on how differing firm characteristics affect the in-
stitution’s intervention decision, and the implications that this has for firm
ownership structure. This complementary focus leads us to adopt a some-
what richer structure than Maug. For example, we incorporate additional
large traders, and find that trading effects are of little concern for firms
where costs of gathering information are relatively low and competition among
informed traders is high. We also make firm outcomes partly independent of
intervention, and find that firms that are generally thought to be doing well
are less likely to receive intervention when they do need it, because market
expectations make it more profitable for the institution to cut and run rather
than intervene.
   Our complementary focus also leads us to a broader analysis of ownership
structure choice. To illustrate his main point, Maug focuses on the case where
the holdout problem is most severe—the case where the institution acquires
its stake on the open market at a price that reflects the small shareholders’
marginal valuation. Because private placements of shares can alleviate the
holdout problem, we analyze ownership structure choice under both private
placements and open market purchases. We also analyze the impact of is-
suing restricted shares to mitigate cut-and-run behavior.
   The rest of the paper is structured as follows. After describing our model
and assumptions in Section I, Section II examines the intervention and in-
formation gathering decisions of the institution and other speculators, given
a preexisting ownership structure. Section III examines how ownership struc-
ture is determined, and Section IV considers the use of short-swing rules
and restricted shares. Section V discusses our model’s empirical implications
and some supporting evidence, and Section VI concludes.


                           I. Basic Assumptions
  Our model focuses on a firm whose stock is traded in a market with three
types of participants: small investors, large institutional investors, and com-
petitive market makers. For simplicity, all agents are risk neutral. The model
takes place over times 0, 1, and 2. The firm allocates its shares (normalized
to one for simplicity) among different investors at time 0, shares are traded
on the open market at time 1, and the firm is liquidated at time 2.
  At time 2, the firm returns either 0 or X units of the consumption good,
which is then divided among shareholders on a pro rata basis. Absent out-
side intervention (see below), the chance of a return of X is assumed to be
q [ ~0, 1!.
                                                                                                     15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
104                              The Journal of Finance

   At time 0, a large institutional investor (henceforth “the institution”) ob-
tains n of the firm’s shares; the remaining 1 2 n go to a continuum of infin-
itesimal small investors. For the moment, this allocation is exogenous; the
choice of ownership structure is addressed in Section III.
   Before time 1 trading, the institution learns whether or not the firm is
“distressed.” 5 If the firm is not distressed, its time 2 realization will be X. If
it is distressed, then its time 2 return will be zero unless the institution
“intervenes” at a positive cost m. Intervention changes the firm’s return from
zero to X with probability d. Thus, if the institution is certain to intervene
when the firm is distressed, the firm’s ex ante chance of success increases to
qmax [ q 1 d~1 2 q!. Intervention involves determining a beneficial change
in the firm’s policy and then trying to get that change carried out. In prac-
tice, getting management to make the change might involve threatening
(and possibly carrying out) a takeover or proxy fight, but we abstract from
these details. (An alternative would be to structure managerial compensa-
tion so as to motivate management to make these changes, but such schemes
are limited by managerial risk aversion and wealth constraints. Thus, in-
tervention can play a useful role even in the presence of compensation
schemes.)6
   It seems reasonable that other large institutional investors might attempt
to gather information about the firm for use in trading at time 1. We assume
a large number of such potential “speculators.” By paying an amount g, spec-
ulators learn the firm’s situation before time 1 trading, including whether or
not the institution has intervened. For simplicity, we assume that both the
institution and the speculators immediately find out whether the interven-
tion has been successful. The assumption that informed speculators have the
same information as the institution is extremely strong. Nonetheless, weak-
ening this assumption would not change our qualitative results—as will be
seen, our assumptions already give the institution a trading advantage over
the speculators. The effects of weakening the assumption that informed trad-
ers immediately learn whether intervention has been successful is discussed
at the end of Section II.
   As noted before, the time 1 stock market has three types of participants:
competitive market makers, small shareholders, and large informed inves-
tors (the institution and speculators). Small shareholders will not intervene
or speculate because the fixed costs involved outweigh their (infinitesimal)

   5
     In earlier versions of this paper, we assumed that the institution has to pay a cost for
acquiring this information. As long as the institution can acquire information more cheaply
than can other investors—perhaps by virtue of its stake in the firm—our basic results are
unchanged.
   6
     Although in principle one could have multiple large shareholders, we assume that there is
only one (the institution) so as to simplify the analysis of intervention. Having one large share-
holder intervene (or “monitor”) avoids duplication of effort and free rider problems. However,
multiple monitors may be useful if monitoring quality is sufficiently convex in effort (see Win-
ton (1993)), or if the signals received by different monitors are imperfectly correlated. Also, if
the effectiveness of monitoring depends on the number of shares controlled, multiple large
shareholders might gain from forming coalitions.
                                                                                                 15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
             Ownership Structure, Speculation, and Intervention                          105

                                          Table I
                                Sequence of Events

Time 0:   • Initial ownership structure is chosen.
          • Speculators decide whether to gather information.
Time 1:   • Competitive stock market opens.
          • Institution and active speculators learn the firm’s base time 2 return.
          • If the institution finds that the base return is bad, it decides whether to inter-
            vene. Intervention’s outcome is realized and observed by informed investors.
          • Small investors may experience liquidity shocks.
          • Trading takes place.
Time 2:   • Firm return is realized and divided among shareholders.



gains from these activities. Market makers have no private information of
their own. Following Admati and Pfleiderer (1989) and Easley and O’Hara
(1992), we assume that market makers quote bid and ask prices PB and PA
independent of the supply or demand for shares at time 1; i.e., these prices
are independent of realized order flow. Bertrand competition among the mar-
ket makers leads to zero profits in equilibrium, so that PB equals the ex-
pected value of a share conditional on a sale, and PA equals the expected
value conditional on a buy.
   At time 1, small investors may suffer “liquidity shocks” that cause them to
buy or sell a number of shares equal to the amount they hold, independent
of the market price. Buying could be the result of a portfolio shock that leads
them to desire exposure to the firm; selling could represent a sudden need
for funds. For simplicity, we assume that small investors have a chance m of
each type of shock. Thus, if small investors hold 1 2 n of the firm’s shares,
the total expected volume L of liquidity buys or sells is m~1 2 n!.
   For simplicity, large investors with private information about the firm (the
institution and the speculators) do not face liquidity shocks. Each large in-
vestor’s trading is limited to buying or selling w shares. This limit can be
thought of as a simplified version of a wealth restriction on buying on mar-
gin or selling short. Any short selling or borrowing must be repaid at time 2.
(In a more complex model with risk aversion, w might also reflect diversifi-
cation concerns.)
   The sequence of events in the model is summarized in Table I.


   II. Market Equilibrium Given an Initial Ownership Structure

A. Market Equilibrium at Time 1
   We solve our model starting from the situation at time 1 and working
backwards. Suppose that the institution holds n shares. Before time 1, if the
firm is distressed, it may choose to intervene. Although the institution and
any informed (“active”) speculators know what the institution has chosen to
do and whether any intervention has been successful, the market makers
only know the ex ante equilibrium probabilities that these events have oc-
                                                                                   15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
106                        The Journal of Finance

curred. Accordingly, let a be the equilibrium probability that an informed
institution intervenes upon finding that the firm is performing badly. Let S
be the equilibrium expected number of active speculators.
  It follows that the ex ante probability q ' that the firm will eventually do
well (whether through intervention or not) equals q 1 ad~1 2 q!; similarly,
the ex ante value of the firm’s cash flows is q ' X. In the absence of informed
trading, the competitive market makers would quote q ' X as both the bid and
the ask price. However, fully informed investors know that the firm is either
worth 0 or X: if the firm is worth 0, they will sell as many shares as they can
at any bid price PB above 0; if the firm is worth X, they will buy as many
shares as they can at any ask price PA below X. Because the expected prob-
ability that the firm eventually succeeds is q ' , and the maximum trading
volume of informed traders S equals ~S 1 1!w, it easily follows that expected
informed selling volume is ~1 2 q ' !{S, while expected informed buying vol-
ume is q ' {S.
  These considerations lead to the following results.
LEMMA 1 (Equilibrium Prices and Returns):
   (i) The equilibrium bid and ask prices are

                           L{q ' X                     ~L 1 S!{q ' X
                 PB 5                     and   PA 5                 .       (1)
                        L 1 ~1 2 q ' !S                  L 1 q'S

  (ii) Denoting the institution’s possible actions as D (don’t intervene at all)
       and I (intervene when possible), the net returns RD and RI to each of
       these actions are

         RD 5 n{qX 1 w{@q~X 2 PA ! 1 ~1 2 q!{PB #        and

         RI 5 n{qmax X 1 w{@qmax ~X 2 PA! 1 ~1 2 qmax!{PB # 2 d~1 2 q!{m.

                                                                             (2)

  (iii) The net expected return RS to each active speculator is

                     RS 5 w{@q ' ~X 2 PA ! 1 ~1 2 q ' !{PB # 2 g.            (3)

Proofs of this and all subsequent results are given in the Appendix.
   In each case, the institution’s return consists of the value of its initial
shareholding n, plus speculative profits from using its total wealth w to trade
on its private information, less any cost of intervening. These returns are
only affected by the institution’s intervention decision a and the expected
number of speculators S through the effects of these variables on the equi-
librium prices PA and PB and the ex ante probability q ' that the firm succeeds.
   Note that an increase in the expected volume of liquidity trading L in-
creases the bid price and decreases the ask price; as is usual in microstruc-
                                                                                   15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
            Ownership Structure, Speculation, and Intervention              107

ture models, increases in liquidity trading reduce adverse selection problems
for market makers, narrowing the bid–ask spread. Increases in the volume
of strategic (informed) trading S have the opposite effect on prices— adverse
selection problems for market makers increase. An increase in the likelihood
of intervention a increases both bid and ask prices, both by raising the ex
ante value of the firm q ' X and by weighting informed trading more toward
buying than selling (the firm is more likely to do well).

B. Large Investors’ Choices of Actions Before Trading
  We now consider the various large investors’ equilibrium choices of actions
prior to trading. The speculators must decide whether to gather information,
and if the firm is distressed the institution must decide whether to inter-
vene. Furthermore, these choices and the resulting equilibrium prices must
be consistent. The following proposition shows that an equilibrium always
exists and gives the conditions that determine equilibrium action choices.

PROPOSITION 2 (Equilibrium Action Choices): Take any candidate equilibrium
choices for the institution’s probability of intervening a and the expected num-
ber of active speculators S. Let PA , PB , RD , RI , and RS be as defined in
Lemma 1. Then, in equilibrium, the following conditions hold:
   (i) If RI is less than, equal to, or greater than RD , then a equals zero, is
       between zero and one, or equals one, respectively.
  (ii) If RS is less than zero, no investors become speculators (S equals zero);
       if there are speculators (S greater than zero), RS equals zero.
Given the institution’s ownership stake n and the other parameters of the
model, an equilibrium set of action choices always exists.
   Condition (i) is straightforward: if the institution is to intervene once it
learns that the firm is distressed, its expected return RI must at least weakly
exceed the return to just trading on information RD . Condition (ii) follows
from free entry by speculators: if the expected equilibrium profit of a specu-
lator RS exceeded zero, it would pay for at least one more speculator to
gather information with some probability, so either RS is negative and there
are no speculators, or RS equals zero. Finally, existence of equilibrium fol-
lows standard fixed point arguments, as discussed in the Appendix.
   We are interested in situations where the institution is not the only in-
formed trader (i.e., S exceeds zero), as this seems to apply most broadly to
publicly traded firms. Proposition A.1 of the Appendix establishes sufficient
conditions that guarantee that speculators become active. Essentially, spec-
ulators must be able to recoup their costs of gathering information by trad-
ing on it. This requires a sufficiently high level of liquidity trading, so the
institution’s maximum stake w cannot be too large, nor the chance of liquid-
ity shocks m too small. Also, the cost of gathering information g cannot be too
large relative to trading profits, which are directly related to the number of
shares w each speculator can trade and to the variance of the firm’s returns
                                                                                                   15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
108                              The Journal of Finance

(without uncertainty, profitable trading is impossible).7 Proposition A.2 of
the Appendix then shows that, subject to these conditions, the equilibrium is
unique.
   When speculators are active ~S . 0!, Proposition 2 implies that the equi-
librium values of a and S are determined by the condition that RS equals
zero and by the relationship between the return to intervening, RI , and the
return to not intervening, RD . Notice that RI and RD only differ when the
institution learns that the firm is distressed: it can either cut and run, sell-
ing its shares, or intervene and try to improve matters. Of course, interven-
tion isn’t guaranteed success, and with probability 1 2 d the institution ends
up selling its shares anyway. Defining F [ ~RI 2 RD )0(1 2 q) as the nor-
malized difference between the two returns, we have


                         F 5 dnX 2 m 1 dw~X 2 PA 2 PB !.                                    (4)


F is the (normalized) net benefit of intervention. From Proposition 2(i), the
equilibrium probability of intervention a is zero, between zero and one, or
one as F is negative, equal to zero, or positive.
  The net benefit of intervention has two components. The first is the ex-
pected increase in the value of the institution’s initial stake, dnX, less the
cost of intervention m; this can be thought of as the direct impact of inter-
vention. The second component, d{w~X 2 PA 2 PB !, is the impact of inter-
vention on the institution’s expected trading profits: with chance d, the
intervention succeeds, causing the institution to buy w shares (and earn
X 2 PA on each) rather than sell w shares (and earn PB on each).
  This trading impact needn’t be positive. Making use of the expressions for
the bid and ask prices from Lemma 1, we have


             X 2 PA 2 PB 5 ~1 2 2q ' !X{ 1 2  F            SA SB
                                                      ~L 1SA!{~L 1 SB !
                                                                        .   G               (5)


The trading impact of intervention has the same sign as 1 2 2q ' . Intuitively,
intervention only increases the institution’s trading profits if it increases the
value of the institution’s information about the firm’s future returns. Be-
cause the value of this information is directly related to its precision relative
to that of the uninformed market makers, and the institution learns the
firm’s return with certainty, it follows that the value of the institution’s in-
formation is directly related to the ex ante variance of the firm’s return,
q ' ~1 2 q ' !X 2 . Because intervention increases the ex ante probability q ' of
good returns, its impact on trading profits has the same sign as the deriv-
ative of the variance with respect to q ' . This derivative is ~1 2 2q ' !X 2 , so an

  7
    The specific conditions derived in Proposition A.1 are that w be no greater than half of the
firm’s shares, and wX0g must weakly exceed m 22 , @q~1 2 q!# 21 , and @qmax~1 2 qmax )] 21 .
                                                                                           15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
             Ownership Structure, Speculation, and Intervention                    109

increase in the probability of good returns improves trading profits if and
only if q ' is less than 12_ .
   Although this leads to a simple rule in our binomial model where the
institution is perfectly informed (intervention increases trading profits if and
only if q ' is less than 12_ ), the more general point is that intervention and
speculation are complements only when intervention increases the institu-
tion’s information advantage over other traders—in this case, the market
makers. When intervention’s impact is more of a surprise (here, when q ' is
less than 12_ ), intervention increases trading profits, but if the firm is already
expected to do well, or intervention’s impact is diffused, not intervening may
be more surprising, and so more lucrative. As we shall see, this has a num-
ber of implications for institutional behavior and for optimal ownership
structure.

C. The Impact of Changes in Ownership Concentration
   Next, we examine how equilibrium behavior is affected by changes in own-
ership structure, as measured by the institution’s share n in the firm. Let
nM [ dX0m be the ownership stake at which the institution’s direct impact of
intervention dnX 2 m equals zero. This is strictly increasing in n, so if nM
exists, it is unique and greater than zero. Note that nM is increasing in the
cost of intervention m, decreasing in the probability d that intervention suc-
ceeds, and decreasing in successful intervention’s impact X on firm returns.
   Absent trading concerns, nM would be the ownership level at which an
informed institution would start intervening; in fact, since the direct impact
of intervention increases with n, the institution would not intervene if n was
below nM , and would intervene with certainty if n was above nM . However, as
just shown, the trading impact may be positive or negative, depending on
the sign of 1 2 2q ' , and so the point at which intervention becomes attrac-
tive may be higher or lower than nM . These considerations help lead to the
following result.
PROPOSITION 3 (Impact of Ownership Concentration on Intervention):
    (i) There is a critical level n * such that, if the institution’s stake in the
        firm is less than n * , the institution gathers information but never in-
        tervenes. As the institution’s stake increases beyond n * , the probability
        of intervention increases with the institution’s stake.
   (ii) The critical level n * is greater than nM if the firm’s base (no interven-
        tion) probability of success, q, is greater than 12_ . It is less than nM if the
        firm’s base probability of success is less than 12_ .
  (iii) Suppose that the firm’s maximum chance of success (with full inter-
        vention) qmax is greater than 12_ . Then certain intervention can only
        occur for some n greater than nM , if at all.
  The intuition behind part (i) of the proposition is as follows. For low own-
ership levels, the institution’s direct impact from intervening is negative, so
unless the trading impact from intervention is very positive, intervention
                                                                                                     15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
110                              The Journal of Finance

simply isn’t worth the cost. As ownership level increases, the direct impact of
intervention increases. Although increasing the institution’s stake also re-
duces expected liquidity trades L (there are fewer small shareholders), the
number of speculators shrinks to exactly offset the reduced liquidity in the
market.8 This occurs because outside speculators are the marginal informed
traders: the institution has lower cost of gathering information, so it is un-
affected by the decrease in liquidity as long as some speculators are active.
The only factor that affects prices is the probability of intervention, which is
zero in this region, so prices and the trading impact of intervention are
constant until n * is reached, at which point the direct impact offsets any
trading impact. Further increases in n increase the direct impact, making
intervention attractive; however, intervention raises prices, reducing the trad-
ing impact. The net effect is that the probability of intervention now in-
creases continuously in n.
   The intuition behind part (ii) of the proposition has already been dealt
with, but part (iii) requires some explanation. Essentially, when the institu-
tion’s stake reaches nM , its direct impact from intervention is zero, so if the
trading impact of intervention is positive, the institution strictly prefers in-
tervention to pure speculation. Because the probability of a good return with
certain intervention is qmax , it follows that the trading benefit will be posi-
tive and consistent with full intervention only if qmax is less than 12_ .
   To summarize, the ability to trade on information alters the institution’s
behavior as a function of its ownership stake in the firm. Without this abil-
ity, the relationship would be clear-cut: no intervention below nM , full inter-
vention above this level. The institution’s ability to trade has two effects: it
typically increases intervention slowly over some range of ownership levels,
and this range may begin above or below nM , depending on whether inter-
vention increases the institution’s information advantage or not. Further-
more, unless the firm is likely to fail even with full intervention ~qmax , 12_ ),
the ability to trade on information results in slower attainment of full
intervention.

D. Comparative Statics on Intervention
  We are interested in how changing key parameters affects both the critical
ownership level n * and the probability of intervention once this level is sur-
passed. The parameters that we formally analyze are the firm’s base chance
of success (without intervention) q, the effectiveness of intervention d, the
difference X between good and bad returns, and the cost of gathering infor-
mation g.

  8
     Although we focus on equilibria in which speculators are active, it should be noted that a
high enough level of ownership concentration can reduce the volume of liquidity trading to the
point at which speculation is unprofitable. Once this occurs, the institution is the only informed
trader, and further reductions in the volume of liquidity trading are now internalized by the
institution. We return to the relationship between liquidity and the institution’s choices in the
next subsection.
                                                                                      15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
            Ownership Structure, Speculation, and Intervention                 111

COROLLARY 4 (Changes in the Base Chance of Success):
   (i) An increase in the base chance of success q increases n * .
  (ii) For ownership stakes above n * , an increase in the base chance of suc-
       cess reduces the equilibrium probability of intervention a.
  Holding the level of intervention fixed, an increase in the base chance of
success q increases the equilibrium probability of success q ' —which means
that success is more expected than before. This means that intervention’s
impact on the institution’s trading profits is less positive (or more negative)
than before, undermining incentives to intervene and reducing the equilib-
rium level of intervention. It follows that the institution must have a larger
stake in the firm to support any intervention, so n * increases.
COROLLARY 5 (Changes in the Effectiveness of Intervention):
   (i) An increase in the effectiveness of intervention d reduces n * .
  (ii) For ownership stakes above n * , an increase in intervention’s effective-
       ness increases the equilibrium probability of intervention a when a or
       d is sufficiently small.
   Intuitively, as intervention becomes more effective, its direct impact in-
creases, making intervention more attractive at lower ownership levels. Nev-
ertheless, because intervention has more effect on the distribution of the
firm’s returns, such an increase also increases the magnitude of the trading
impact of intervention, whether positive or negative. If intervention occurs
with zero or low probability, or the effectiveness of intervention d is itself
low, an increase in d has little effect on the distribution of the firm’s returns,
and so little effect on the trading impact of intervention; thus, direct effects
dominate, making intervention more attractive. Otherwise, the effect can be
ambiguous.
COROLLARY 6 (Changes in the Difference Between Good and Bad Returns):
   (i) An increase in the difference between good and bad returns X re-
       duces n * .
  (ii) If the equilibrium probability of good returns q ' is less than 12_ , or the
       institution’s stake n is close to its overall wealth limit w, then increas-
       ing X increases the probability of intervention.
   An increase in X increases the direct impact of intervention; it also in-
creases the variance of the firm’s returns. The second effect tends to increase
the magnitude of intervention’s trading impact (it also attracts more specu-
lators into the market, which reduces this magnitude, but the net effect is
an increase). If the equilibrium probability of success is below 12_ , the effects
on the direct impact and the trading impact go in the same direction; other-
wise, they conflict. The direct effect dominates when the institution’s stake
is near n * ; it also dominates when the institution has invested most of its
wealth, for in this case the direct impact is close to dw, which exceeds the
magnitude of any trading impact.
                                                                                        15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
112                          The Journal of Finance

   Thus, increases in both d and X reduce the threshold at which interven-
tion first occurs, but because they increase intervention’s trading impact as
well as its direct impact, they can have mixed effects on intervention when
the institution is already intervening with significant probability. By con-
trast, an increase in the cost of gathering information g has no effect on the
direct impact of intervention. However, it reduces the profitability of in-
formed trading, so fewer speculators are active, and prices are less reveal-
ing. This increases the magnitude of the trading impact of intervention: with
less revealing prices, more trading revenues are at stake. Effectively, the
departure of marginal speculators means that the institution faces less com-
petition in informed trading. This leads to the following result:

COROLLARY 7 (Changes in the Cost of Gathering Information):
   (i) An increase in the speculator’s cost of gathering information g does not
       affect nM . It decreases n * if the base probability of good returns q is less
       than 12_ , and increases n * if q is greater than 12_ .
  (ii) If the equilibrium probability of good returns q ' is less than 12_ , then
       increasing the speculator’s cost of gathering information g increases
       the level of intervention a; otherwise, it decreases intervention.
   A further corollary is that, because a decrease in g decreases the overall
magnitude of the trading impact, the ambiguous effects of changes in d and
X are lessened—trading effects simply don’t matter as much to the institu-
tion, because high speculative activity makes prices fairly revealing.
   We note that an increase in the probability of liquidity shocks m has no
effect on intervention so long as speculators are active. Again, the reason is
that these other speculators are the marginal informed traders, so increases
in liquidity trading attract more speculators into the market. In equilibrium,
the new speculators exactly offset the additional liquidity trading, leaving
the institution’s incentives unchanged. However, if speculators’ costs of gath-
ering information were not identical, but were drawn from a distribution,
higher liquidity volume would attract less efficient speculators, raising equi-
librium trading profits. This would tend to increase the magnitude of the
trading impact of intervention, which would affect the institution’s interven-
tion choice.

E. Discussion
   This section has shown that the ability to trade on information alters the
institution’s incentive to engage in value-enhancing intervention, increasing
this incentive if and only if intervention enhances the value of the institu-
tion’s information. In this simple model, this comes down to whether success
or failure is less expected by uninformed market participants, which in turn
depends on whether the equilibrium probability of success is below or above
1
_
2 . From a trading perspective, the institution prefers to enhance the odds of
the least expected outcome, so if the expected chance of success is less than
                                                                                                         15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
                Ownership Structure, Speculation, and Intervention                               113
1
_
2 , it has incentive to improve matters by intervention, and otherwise it has
incentive to cut and run.
   The importance of this trading effect increases as intervention becomes
more effective, as the firm’s innate risk increases, and as the cost of gath-
ering information increases. In the first two cases, the institution’s direct
impact from intervening also increases. In the last case, the institution faces
less competition in informed trading, increasing the importance it places on
trading concerns while leaving the direct impact of intervention unaffected.
   We conclude this section with a brief discussion of the effects of relaxing
some of our model’s assumptions.
   (1) Delayed resolution of intervention. To simplify matters, we have been
assuming that intervention’s outcome is immediately known to the various
informed traders. Suppose instead that this information doesn’t become known
until time 2. Such delayed resolution of intervention skews the trading im-
pact of intervention toward the negative.9 Intuitively, by intervening, the
institution gives up precise information (the firm is doing badly) for less
precise information (the firm may do well).
   This negative impact on intervention is lower as the effectiveness of in-
tervention d is higher. Furthermore, some types of intervention might be
resolved more quickly than others: for example, a spin-off or removal of take-
over deterrents resolves more quickly than a shift in R&D emphasis. Simi-
larly, interventions might have more immediate impact in mature industries
than in high technology firms.
   Of course, in a model with repeated trading periods, the institution might
be able to wait until the outcome of the intervention is resolved and then
trade, but by that point its intervention may well have become public, re-
ducing the value of the institution’s information. Also, institutions must worry
about performance evaluation, which might shorten their horizons and in-
crease their desire to sell out for relatively certain gains now rather than
intervene and receive uncertain benefits down the road.
   (2) Benefits of control.10 Although wealthy individuals and corporations
can also be large shareholders, such investors are more likely to obtain ben-
efits of control apart from the increase in share value analyzed here. Such
benefits would reduce the large shareholder’s willingness to sell shares, en-
couraging intervention over pure speculation, but now the large shareholder
would intervene so as to increase some weighted sum of total shareholder
value and private control benefits. Because effective control can be obtained
with a fraction of the firm’s shares (particularly through the use of different
classes of voting rights, or pyramiding schemes), the large shareholder might


    9
     Specifically, if the institution intervenes, it now values the firm at dX. If dX is less than the
ask price PA , the institution might intervene, but it cannot profit from buying more shares.
Only if dX is greater than PA can the institution make a profit by trading on its information.
Thus, the trading impact becomes w{[max $dX 2 PA ,0% 2 PB #, which is less than our previous
value of dw{@X 2 PA 2 PB #.
   10
      We thank the referee and the editor for raising this issue.
                                                                                                   15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
114                              The Journal of Finance

inefficiently reduce cash flows available to other shareholders (see Bebchuk
and Zingales (1996) and Pagano and Röell (1996)). Thus, although the trade-
off between speculation and intervention would loom less large if control
benefits were important, the positive relationship between ownership con-
centration and firm value would also be undermined.
   Although control benefits are likely to be less important for most institu-
tional investors, an important exception arises in the case of interlocking
shareholdings, which characterize much institutional share ownership in Ja-
pan (see Sheard (1994)), and which may effectively limit the activism of
corporate pension fund managers in the United States (see Roe (1994)).11


              III. The Determination of Ownership Structure
   We now consider endogenizing the institution’s stake in the firm. We find
that more concentrated ownership generally increases firm value; however,
the benefits to increased concentration are weakest when the institution’s
stake is less than the critical level n * defined in the previous section. In this
analysis, we assume that the firm is initially owned by an entrepreneur
whose goal is to sell off the firm so as to maximize his or her proceeds. For
comparison, we also briefly consider the effects when the firm is initially
diffusely held. In this case, there is a tension between the institution’s in-
centives and maximization of shareholder value which stems from the fact
that the institution’s intervention benefits all shareholders, but its specula-
tion benefits itself and hurts small shareholders. When the institution buys
shares anonymously on the open market, these externalities have effects
analogous to the holdout problem analyzed in Grossman and Hart’s (1980)
paper on takeovers.12

A. Choosing Initial Ownership Structure to Maximize Shareholder Value
   Suppose that an initial owner sells the firm’s shares to one large (institu-
tional) and many small investors so as to maximize his or her proceeds. This
owner could be an entrepreneur or private equity fund seeking to cash out,
or a government seeking to privatize state-owned enterprises. Assume that
this initial owner sells shares by competitive auction in two separate lots:
one of size n (as determined by the initial owner) to one of many institutional
investors, and one of size 1 2 n to a large number of small investors.13 Again,

  11
      If the institution is also a lender (as in the case of banks in Germany and Japan), there
may be a conflict of interest between the institution and other shareholders. On the other hand,
some have argued that such combined debt and equity holdings may be useful in maximizing
overall firm value. See Berlin, John, and Saunders (1996) for an analysis of some of these
issues.
   12
      As noted in the introduction, our results when the institution buys shares on the open
market are essentially analogous to those of Maug (1998).
   13
      Although such price discrimination is generally not part of IPOs in the United States,
large institutional investors are sometimes brought in prior to the IPO (see Mikkelson, Partch,
and Shah (1995)).
                                                                                                   15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
               Ownership Structure, Speculation, and Intervention                          115

we assume that the maximum number of shares the institution can pur-
chase is w.
  It follows that the initial owner’s objective is to choose n less than w so as
to maximize

           ~1 2 n!{@ m{PB ~n! 1 ~1 2 m!{q ' ~n!{X 1 m{~q ' ~n!{X 2 PA ~n!!#
                1 @a~n!{RI ~n! 1 ~1 2 a~n!!{RD ~n!#,                                        (6)

where we have written the bid price PB , ask price PA , monitoring level a, and
ex ante probability q ' of success as functions of n to emphasize that, as n
changes, these equilibrium values change as well. The first term in the ob-
jective function is the value of the small shareholders’ stake: with probabil-
ity m, they are forced to sell at the bid price, and with probability m, they are
forced to buy additional shares at the ask price, even though they are un-
informed. This can be rearranged as ~1 2 n!{q ' ~n!{X 2 ~1 2 n!m{~PA 2 PB !;
that is, the small shareholder’s share of the firm’s expected cash flows, less
their expected trading losses L~PA 2 PB !. The second term in the objective
function is the value of the institution’s stake, which is the weighted average
of the returns to pure speculation and intervention.
   This objective function can be simplified by noting that, since market mak-
ers break even, expected trading losses suffered by liquidity traders must
equal expected trading gains to informed investors. These trading gains equal
~S~n! 1 1!{g: the S~n! speculators each break even, earning g, while the
institution’s average trading profits are limited to the same amount. Also, it
is easy to show that the expected value of the institution’s position equals

                           nq ' ~n!{X 2 ~1 2 q!{a~n!{m 1 g.                                 (7)

The institution gets the expected value of its initial stake n, less expected
intervention costs, plus expected trading profits g. Thus, because q ' equals
q 1 ad~1 2 q!, the initial owner’s objective function equals

                       qX 1 ~1 2 q!a~n!@dX 2 m# 2 S~n!{g;                                   (8)

that is, total shareholder value equals the base value of the firm, qX, plus the
net expected benefit of any intervention, less the costs of gathering information.
  Although outside speculators break even in their trading, their costs of
gathering information are passed through to small shareholders, reducing
the amount these shareholders are willing to pay in the first place. Because
we do not have a direct positive role for the information that the speculators
gather, this cost is a deadweight loss. By contrast, increases in intervention
generally increase shareholder value.14

  14
     Indeed, in this model, institutional intervention only hurts overall shareholder value when
the institution’s trading volume w is greater than half of the firm’s shares: the institution’s
benefit from intervention is less than d~y 1 w!X 2 m, while that to the firm as a whole is
dX 2 m.
                                                                                                 15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
116                             The Journal of Finance

   Of course, in a more complex model, speculators’ impact on prices might
add value; for example, more revealing stock prices can make a manager’s
shareholdings a better incentive device (Holmström and Tirole (1993)), might
give the manager better information about industry conditions (Fishman
and Hagerty (1992)), or (in a dynamic model) might allow an institutional
investor to learn that the firm is likely to do badly without gathering as
much information on its own.15 These considerations suggest important ca-
veats to any results that depend on increases or decreases in the number of
speculators and their total costs of gathering information.
   It is easy to show that for ownership levels below n * the number of spec-
ulators declines with the institution’s stake in the firm: liquidity volume is
reduced, and the speculators (being the marginal informed traders) are forced
out of the market. For levels above n * , higher institutional ownership in-
creases intervention and its net benefit to the firm as a whole, dX 2 m. The
effect on speculation is ambiguous if q ' is less than 12_ , and negative other-
wise. (Liquidity volume is always reduced, reducing speculation, but q ' less
than 12_ implies that increased intervention increases the firm’s return vari-
ance and thus the profit to informed trading, increasing speculation. When
q ' exceeds 12_ , return variance is decreased, complementing the liquidity ef-
fect.) To the extent the impact of changes in the number of speculators and
their expenditures on gathering information are “second order” due to omit-
ted benefits of more informative prices, increasing the institution’s stake
increases total shareholder value.
   Thus, when an initial owner optimally chooses the mix of shareholdings,
he or she generally prefers to give the institution as many shares as it can
buy. This has the greatest impact when the institution’s wealth constraint w
exceeds the critical level n * at which intervention first occurs; below n * , the
only impact of increased concentration is to reduce the number of active
speculators.


B. Ownership Structure When the Institution Buys Shares on the Open Market
  When the institution buys shares on the open market, its incentives to
concentrate shares are counter to “social” incentives. Suppose that at time 0
the firm is diffusely held, and assume for the moment that the market mak-
ers who sell shares at this point must cover their positions by the end of time
0 by buying shares at competitive prices from small shareholders. We also
assume for simplicity that the institution is the only informed trader at time
0. As before, the chance of liquidity trades is m.
  Suppose that the institution buys n shares with certainty. Then the ex-
pected value of the firm’s cash flows is q ' X. Because the ultimate source of
shares is small shareholders, the selling price P0 equals the value of these
shares to a small shareholder: q ' X 2 m{~PA 2 PB !. As already noted, ex-

  15
     We thank the referee for this last insight. A good discussion of various pros and cons of
informed trading can be found in Fishman and Hagerty (1992).
                                                                                      15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
             Ownership Structure, Speculation, and Intervention                117

pected time 1 trading losses m~1 2 n!{~PA 2 PB ! equal total expected trading
profits ~S 1 1!{g, so

                                             ~S~n! 1 1!{g
                          P0 5 q ' ~n!{X 2                .                     (9)
                                                12n

The institution benefits from future speculative activity, which depresses the
value that the current small shareholders place on their shares. Note that
the discount is proportional to ~S 1 1!0~m~1 2 n!!, which is the ratio of
informed traders to liquidity trading volume.
  The institution’s net profit from buying n shares today is a{RI 1 ~1 2 a!{RD 2
n{P0 , which equals

                        ~S~n! 1 1!{g
                   n{                1 g 2 ~1 2 q!{a~n!{m.                    (10)
                           12n

As in Maug (1998), the institution gains no direct benefit from intervention.
Instead, the institution benefits from the effect of future speculative activity
on the initial price P0 and from its own expected trading profits, which
equal g. Intervention’s effect on the firm’s cash flows is a positive external-
ity; as in Grossman and Hart (1980), no one small shareholder has incentive
to pay for the costs of intervention. By contrast, informed trading creates
negative externalities for small shareholders; these depress the share price,
enabling the institution to buy shares more cheaply.
   For ownership levels below n * , there is no intervention. The proof of Prop-
osition 3 shows that the ratio of informed traders to liquidity trades is con-
stant in this region, so the institution’s profits increase until n * is reached.
Thereafter, matters are less clear-cut: although larger stakes increase the
institution’s share of any discount from future informed trading, expected
intervention costs also increase. Also, once the firm’s ex ante chance of suc-
cess q ' exceeds 12_ , increasing the institution’s stake decreases the variance of
the firm’s return, reducing trading profits and thus the ratio of informed
traders to liquidity trades. Thus, the institution may limit its stake even
though a higher stake and increased intervention might be socially desirable.
   We conclude this subsection by considering some modifications of our
assumptions.
  (1) If market makers don’t have to immediately cover their positions, the
      holdout problem is reinforced. For example, if they can hold positions
      costlessly until time 2, the time 0 price is q ' X. It follows that the
      institution’s only gain from buying shares is its expected time 1 trad-
      ing profit g, and it has no incentive to increase its stake into the range
      where intervention occurs.
  (2) If liquidity traders are present at time 0, the institution can profit by
      randomizing its decision to buy shares. This is analogous to Kyle and
      Vila’s (1991) analysis of how liquidity trading can mitigate holdout
                                                                                    15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
118                        The Journal of Finance

      problems in takeovers. Because liquidity trading masks the institu-
      tion’s share purchases, P0 is an average of the marginal shareholder’s
      value when the institution is present (and subsequently intervenes)
      and this value when the institution is not present. Thus, P0 is lower
      than in our previous analysis, increasing the institution’s profits when
      it does acquire shares.
  (3) If the firm issues stock privately to the institution, the holdout prob-
      lem is circumvented. This lets management commit to having an in-
      stitution monitor in the future, which might be useful in a more dynamic
      model where the firm has to go to the market for funds at some future
      date. On the other hand, management’s desire to do this may be weaker
      if the firm is already diffusely held than it is at the time of an IPO,
      particularly if the IPO takes place with a large blockholder already in
      position.

             IV. Short-Swing Rules and Restricted Shares
   Concerns about the potential conflict between the ability to speculate and
the desire to enhance firm value have led some (e.g., Bhide (1993)) to sug-
gest that trading by institutional investors be somehow restricted. In this
section, we discuss two devices that might be used to better align the insti-
tution’s trading incentives with enhancing firm value: short-swing rules and
restricted shares.
   Short-swing rules. U.S. insider trading regulations classify institutions with
10% or more of a firm’s shares as insiders, so that they forfeit any “short-
swing” profits earned by buying or selling shares and then reversing the
trade within a six-month period. As we now discuss, this type of rule is
unlikely to enhance an institution’s incentives to intervene.
   Suppose that such a short-swing rule applies to shareholdings of some
level n[ or more, and that the interval between time 1 and the unwinding of
positions at time 2 is less than the short-swing horizon. Then an institution
that holds more than n[ shares cannot profit from any additional purchases
or short sales of shares at time 1. However, if the interval between time 1
and the institution’s initial purchase of shares at time 0 exceeds the short-
swing horizon, and the institution knows the firm will fail, it can profitably
sell its initial stake at time 1. Intervention’s impact on the institution’s ex-
isting stake is unchanged, but its impact on trading profits is now negative:
intervention reduces the probability that the firm will fail. This effect is
most pronounced for firms with a low base chance of success, because these
firms have the most positive trading impact of intervention in the absence of
short-swing rules.
   In addition to favoring pure speculation over intervention, the short-swing
rule reduces the institution’s expected trading profits. This may lead the
institution to hold fewer than n[ shares, so as to retain its ability to trade on
any information that it has and earn higher trading profits. Unfortunately,
                                                                                                     15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
               Ownership Structure, Speculation, and Intervention                            119

from the viewpoint of maximizing total shareholder value, this is likely to be
inefficient, since a lower stake reduces the probability of intervention.16
   Restricted shares. The preceding discussion suggests that overall prohibi-
tions on short-term trading by large investors may backfire in promoting
intervention. One alternative is to give the institution restricted shares that
cannot be sold in the public market.17 By limiting the institution’s ability to
sell while leaving its ability to buy additional shares relatively untouched,
restricted shares make the trading impact of intervention more positive, en-
couraging intervention. On the other hand, if the institution has liquidity
needs, selling restricted shares involves large losses or delays when the in-
stitution needs the money the most; also, regulation may restrict the frac-
tion of an institution’s portfolio that can be devoted to such holdings. Such
concerns reduce the amount that an institution will be willing to pay for
such shares.18 Because restricted shares are costly, we would expect that
they would be most useful in situations where an institutional investor’s
potential trading profits are high (e.g., other speculators face high costs of
gathering useful information), the trading impact of intervention would other-
wise be negative (e.g., the resolution of intervention is delayed), and the
institution’s liquidity needs are limited.


                                     V. Implications
  We now discuss the implications of our results for the relationship be-
tween outside shareholder monitoring and intervention, ownership struc-
ture, and firm characteristics.
  Our strongest predictions concern the behavior of institutions that have al-
ready acquired large stakes in firms. All else equal, intervention or monitor-
ing should be strongest for firms that are publicly perceived as poor performers,
and weakest for firms that are publicly perceived as good performers. To the
extent that outside shareholders do play a useful role in disciplining manage-
ment, this suggests that institutional intervention may exaggerate mean re-
version in firm earnings performance—“bad” firms attract intervention, while
“good” firms are allowed to slip as informed institutions jump ship.
  Intervention should be most likely for firms in industries or situations
that are relatively accessible to well-informed outsiders: mature or low-

  16
      Also, if larger stakes make intervention cheaper or more likely to succeed (because the
institution controls more votes outright), the short-swing rule is even more inefficient; by re-
ducing the institution’s stake, it makes whatever intervention occurs more costly and ineffective.
   17
      In the United States, SEC Rule 144A allows private resale of such shares subject to certain
conditions, but this resale market is still relatively illiquid. See Carey et al. (1993).
   18
      Indeed, Silber (1991) finds restricted shares place at an average discount of 34 percent
relative to public share prices, and Hertzel and Smith (1993) find that private placements of
restricted shares have a discount 13.5 percent greater than that on private placements of non-
restricted shares. Of course, these discounts may also reflect expected monitoring and inter-
vention costs.
                                                                                                 15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
120                             The Journal of Finance

technology industries, situations where management is clearly subpar (so
that even an average replacement is likely to help matters), or firms with
general “focus” or “agency” problems (extraneous money-losing divisions, or
excessive layers of management). By contrast, it may be harder for outsiders
to know what to do in firms that specialize in new technologies, have a high
R&D focus, or rely on other specialized intangible skills, and the same should
be true in situations where intervention means assessing an uncertain change
of focus, such as what types of R&D should be emphasized, or what direction
a young industry is likely to take. Such “opaque” situations are also likely to
involve delays in the resolution of intervention’s impact, further reducing
the likelihood of intervention.
   Intervention’s impact on trading profits is greatest in magnitude when
barriers to gathering information are highest; therefore, all of these effects
should be most intense for younger, smaller, or otherwise less well-known
firms, and least intense for large, well-established firms with numerous an-
alysts and extensive reporting in the press. Also, all else equal, those firms
where risk is more idiosyncratic than systematic may provide the greatest
potential for private information, making trading concerns more important.
   As noted in the introduction, anecdotal evidence about intervention tar-
gets in the early 1990s is consistent with our predictions: large, well-
established firms with very visible poor performance. Similarly, the case of
Fidelity Magellan’s selling activity in the late fall of 1995 seems consistent
with our predictions: relatively young or small firms in risky and ever-
changing industries (high-technology), where the public perception had been
very positive. Indeed, because of the overall size of Fidelity, the business
press has reported that Fidelity has unparalleled access to the management
of the firms it invests in, giving it a large information advantage over other
market participants.19
   Our analysis suggests that the overall benefits of concentrated institu-
tional ownership are greatest when incentives to intervene are highest. Given
that an institution’s limited wealth and need for diversification may limit
the size of the stake it can hold in any one firm, these benefits will be most
easily found in firms where intervention is achieved at relatively low levels
(in terms of our model, where n * is relatively low). Thus, all else equal, we
should expect concentration to be most useful, hence most common, for firms
where intervention is more effective and more quickly resolved.
   Zeckhauser and Pound (1990) present evidence that is consistent with our
predictions on intervention and concentration. They find that, in low-R&D
industries, there is a significant negative association between the presence
of large outside shareholders and the firm’s earnings0price ratio, but there is
no significant association for firms in high-R&D industries. To the extent
that lower earnings0price ratios proxy for higher earnings growth, this is
consistent with the view that large shareholders are more likely to improve

  19
     Note that the legal prohibition on using “inside” information would not apply to informa-
tion such as in-person appraisals of the CEO’s motives and ability.
                                                                                  15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
            Ownership Structure, Speculation, and Intervention             121

firm performance in low-R&D firms, where intervention is likely to be more
effective and more quickly resolved. Additionally, 39 percent of the firms in
low-R&D industries have a large outside shareholder, but only 28 percent of
the high-R&D firms do, which is consistent with the view that concentration
is more likely in low-R&D firms.
   Restricted shares limit institutions’ cut-and-run behavior, so we would ex-
pect more sales of large blocks of restricted shares to outside investors in
situations where the firm is young, small, or otherwise less well-known, as
well as in firms where firm-specific risk is high. Consistent with this, Silber
(1991) finds that publicly traded firms that issued restricted shares to out-
side investors during 1981–1988 tended to be small (average sales of $40
million); Hertzel and Smith (1993) find similar results for publicly traded
firms that placed shares privately (restricted or otherwise) during 1980–
1987. Hertzel and Smith also find that private placements of restricted shares
have a positive announcement effect on a firm’s publicly traded share price
that is significantly higher (17.8 percent) than that for private placements
in general. Although this result may simply be due to signalling of favorable
information rather than expectations of future monitoring by the new block-
holder(s), they find that the effect is strongly correlated with issues of re-
stricted shares to a single investor rather than to multiple investors, which
is more consistent with the monitoring explanation.


                              VI. Conclusion
  Our paper explores the tension between an institution’s ability to trade on
private information and its desire to use the information to intervene in a
poorly performing firm. As we have shown, the institution’s intervention
decision depends not only on the direct benefit that it receives by interven-
ing and increasing the value of its existing stake in the firm, but also on the
impact of intervention on the institution’s trading profits. When the market
expects the firm to do poorly, this trading impact tends to be positive, en-
couraging intervention; when the market expects the firm to do well, the
trading impact is actually negative, discouraging intervention.
  The size of this trading impact varies with the degree of competition that
the institution faces from other informed traders. As costs of gathering in-
formation fall, more informed traders enter the market, making prices more
informative, diminishing the institution’s trading profits, and thus reducing
the importance of trading profits in the institution’s intervention decision.
Also, as intervention becomes more likely to succeed or the impact of suc-
cessful intervention increases, the trading impact increases in importance.
Finally, as the delay between intervention and the resolution of its success
or failure increases, the trading impact is more likely to be negative, dis-
couraging intervention.
  These results have a number of implications for ownership structure. First,
although a higher ownership stake always increases an institution’s desire
to intervene, the threshold at which intervention becomes attractive will
                                                                                    15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
122                        The Journal of Finance

vary with the sign and size of the trading impact of intervention. Thus,
concentration levels should be higher in relatively “transparent,” well-
understood firms or industries than in relatively “opaque” firms or indus-
tries where information is harder to come by and the effects of intervention
may be more uncertain. Furthermore, firms where intervention’s trading
impact is large and possibly negative should be more inclined to issue re-
stricted shares to institutions, because such a stake tilts the institution’s
trading preferences toward intervening and buying more shares rather than
selling out. By contrast, short-swing provisions imposed on large ownership
stakes reduce trading profits in general, which may encourage institutions
to hold fewer shares—and intervene less often.
   Clearly, the interactions between liquidity demand, speculation, and in-
tervention are complex; our model has examined only a simple case. As noted
in Section II, with heterogeneous speculators, an increase in liquidity de-
mand should attract less efficient speculators on the margin, increasing the
institution’s equilibrium trading profits and their importance in the institu-
tion’s intervention decision. Also, the institution’s own liquidity needs may
affect the intervention decision, particularly if such needs tilt the institution
more toward selling rather than buying shares. Detailed analysis of these
issues could lead to useful cross-sectional relationships between shareholder
composition and intervention.


                                  Appendix

    Proof of Lemma 1: (i) Market makers price at the expected share value
given a buy or sell. Liquidity buyers and sellers think that the firm is worth
q ' X, and the expected volume of each is L. The valuations and volumes of
fully informed buyers and sellers are derived in the text. The expressions for
PA and PB follow easily.
    (ii–iii) The expressions for RD , RI , and RS follow easily (these investors
sell w shares that are truly worth 0 when the firm does badly and there
is either no intervention or it fails, as appropriate, and buy w shares that
are truly worth X at a price PA when the firm does well or intervention
succeeds). Q.E.D.
  Proof of Proposition 2: Condition (i) follows from the usual intuition for
equilibrium strategy choice: if one action yields a strictly higher return than
the alternative, the institution will choose it with certainty; if both actions
are tied for the highest return, the institution is willing to choose any mix-
ture of them. Condition (ii) follows from the logic of free entry, as discussed
in the text.
  Existence follows from Kakutani’s Fixed Point Theorem applied to the
equilibrium price correspondence. The details are available on request and
follow the same basic logic as our existence proof in Kahn and Winton
(1996). Q.E.D.
                                                                                        15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
               Ownership Structure, Speculation, and Intervention                123

PROPOSITION A.1 (Sufficient Conditions for Active Speculators): Suppose that
a large institution’s wealth w is no more than 12_ , and wX/g exceeds m 22 ,
@q~1 2 q!# 21 , and @qmax~1 2 qmax!# 21 . Then, regardless of the institution’s
choice of actions, speculators are active in equilibrium.

   Proof: Speculators won’t become active if RS , 0 for S 5 0, so if we can
show that RS $ 0 at S 5 0 for any ownership stakes n and action choice of
the institution, we are done (because we allow randomized entry, S needn’t
be an integer). First, note that RS increases with L ~PB increases and PA
decreases), so speculation is least attractive (ceteris paribus) when L is small-
est, which occurs at n 5 w.
   RS $ 0 is equivalent to g0w # ~1 2 q ' !{PB 1 q ' {~X 2 PA !. As just shown, this
is least likely when L 5 m~1 2 w! and S 5 0, so we can write the RHS as

                                         L~2L 1 S!
               q ' ~1 2 q ' !X{
                                  ~L 1 q S!~L 1 ~1 2 q ' !S!
                                          '


                        q ' ~1 2 q ' !X{@2m 2 ~1 2 w! 2 1 mw~1 2 w!#
                    5                                                 ,          (A1)
                        m 2 ~1 2 w! 2 1 mw~1 2 w! 1 q ' ~1 2 q ' !w 2

which is clearly increasing in q ' ~1 2 q ' !; thus, it is smallest at either q ' 5 q
or q ' 5 qmax . Denote the minimum value of q ' ~1 2 q ' ! as f; then g0w #
~1 2 q ' !{PB 1 q ' {~X 2 PA ! can be rearranged to yield


       F    g
           wf       G
              2 2X {m 2 ~1 2 w! 2 1           F    g
                                                  wf   G
                                                     2 X {mw~1 2 w! 1
                                                                      g 2
                                                                      w
                                                                        w # 0.   (A2)


If wX0g exceeds f 21 5 max$@q~1 2 q!# 21 , @qmax ~1 2 qmax!# 21 %, the first two
terms in the LHS of the inequality are negative; if w # 12_ , then w 2 #
w~1 2 w! # ~1 2 w! 2 , and the LHS is less than or equal to


  F    g
      wf        G
         2 2X {m 2 {w 2 1         F    g
                                      wf          G  g
                                                                 F
                                         2 X {m{w 2 1 w 2 # 2Xm 2 1
                                                     w
                                                                    g
                                                                    w       G
                                                                      {w 2 . (A3)


This is negative if wX0g exceeds m 22 . Thus, when the conditions in the prop-
osition hold, S 5 0 implies g0w # ~1 2 q ' !{PB 1 q ' {~X 2 PA ! for any a, so
speculators are active in equilibrium. Q.E.D.

PROPOSITION A.2 (Uniqueness of Equilibrium): Suppose that the conditions of
Proposition A.1 hold, so that S . 0 in equilibrium. Then, given the institu-
tion’s stake n and the other parameters of the model, there is only one prob-
ability of intervention a and one number of active speculators S that is an
equilibrium.
                                                                                           15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
124                           The Journal of Finance

   Proof: If dw~X 2 PA 2 PB ! is decreasing in q ' when the condition RS 5 0
is imposed, there will be a unique equilibrium choice of a and S. To see this,
note that RS 5 0 uniquely determines S as an equilibrium function of q ' ;
following Proposition A.2, this is a quadratic equation with only one positive
solution given our earlier conditions. q ' is strictly increasing in a, and equi-
librium returns are only affected by a through the prices (which are func-
tions of q ' ) and q ' itself. If there are two equilibria, one will have lower a
than the other, so RI 2 RD must be weakly lower in the first (low a) equi-
librium. RI 2 RD has the same sign as F [ ~RI 2 RD !0~1 2 q! 5 dnX 2 m 1
dw~X 2 PA 2 PB !, so if dw~X 2 PA 2 PB ! is decreasing in q ' , so is F, and we
have a contradiction.
   Thus, it suffices to show that X 2 PA 2 PB decreases in q ' subject to the
condition RS 5 0. First, note that determining S from RS 5 0 is the same as
determining ~S 1 1!w 5 S, which is somewhat easier to work with. From the
Implicit Function Theorem, dS0dq ' 5 2~?RS 0?q ' !0~?RS 0?S!. We have

        d~X 2 PA 2 PB ! ?~X 2 PA 2 PB ! ?~X 2 PA 2 PB ! { ?RS 0?q '
                       5               2                            .              (A4)
             dq '            ?q '             ?S          ?RS 0?S

Rewriting the equation for X 2 PA 2 PB from the text, we have

                                     ~1 2 2q ' !L~L 1 S!X
                  X 2 PA 2 PB 5                                 .                  (A5)
                                    L2 1 LS 1 q ' ~1 2 q ' !S 2

It follows that ?~X 2 PA 2 PB !0?q ' is directly proportional to 22~L2 1 LS 1
q ' ~1 2 q ' !S 2 ! 2 ~1 2 2q ' ! 2 S 2 , which is negative, while ?~X 2 PA 2 PB !0?S is
directly proportional to 2~1 2 2q ' !. Also, RS 5 0 is equivalent to

                         wq ' ~1 2 q ' !XL~2L 1 S!
                                                     5 g.                          (A6)
                         L2 1 LS 1 q ' ~1 2 q ' !S 2

?RS 0?q ' is directly proportional to 1 2 2q ' ~RS increases with q ' ~1 2 q ' !, and
?@q ' ~1 2 q ' !#0?q ' 5 1 2 2q ' !. ?RS 0?S is negative: RS is proportional to
~1 2 q ' !PB 1 q ' ~X 2 PA !, and PA increases with S while PB decreases.
   It follows that @?~X 2 PA 2 PB !0?S#{@d S0dq ' # has the same sign as 2~1 2 2q ' ! 20
~?RS 0?S!, which is positive, and so d ~X 2 PA 2 PB !0dq ' is strictly nega-
tive. Q.E.D.

Useful Derivatives for Remaining Proofs

           ?PA 2q ' ~1 2 q ' !SX             ?PB     q ' ~1 2 q ' !SX
              5                       and        5                     .           (A7)
           ?L   ~L 1 q ' S! 2                ?L    ~L 1 ~1 2 q ' !S! 2
                                                                                   15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
              Ownership Structure, Speculation, and Intervention            125

              ?PA ?PB    ~1 2 2q ' !q ' ~1 2 q ' !S 2 ~2L 1 S!X
                 1    52                                        .           (A8)
              ?L   ?L       ~L 1 q ' S! 2 ~L 1 ~1 2 q ' !S! 2

               ?PA      L ?PA                   ?PB      L ?PB
                   52                   and         52          .           (A9)
               ?S     S 1 1 ?L                  ?S     S 1 1 ?L

  Proof of Proposition 3: (i) Suppose that n 5 0. Then F equals 2m 1
w~X 2 PA 2 PB !. Set a 5 0, so that q ' 5 q, and find the number of
speculators S that sets RS to zero; if F is negative, this is an equilibrium.
Otherwise, equilibrium involves a . 0, and we can define n * 5 0. (For the
moment, assume a , 1.)
  Suppose that F is negative at n 5 0, so that a 5 0. Then the equilibrium
condition RS 5 0 defines a quadratic in ~S 1 1!w0L whose solution de-
pends only on q, w, g, and other underlying parameters. Thus, in this
region, ~S 1 1!0L is constant, which implies that PA and PB are constant.
Thus the only change in F is from the direct impact term dnX 2 m, which
increases in n. Eventually, either n 5 w, or F equals 0; in the latter case,
we have n * .
  Once F 5 0, equilibrium is determined by two conditions: F 5 0 and
RS 5 0. The Implicit Function Theorem implies that, for any parameter x,
da0dx equals 2@~?F0?x!~?RS 0?S! 2 ~?F0?S!~?RS 0?x!# divided by J [ ~?F0?a!{
~?RS 0?S! 2 ~?F0?S!~?RS 0?a! ~J is the Jacobian). Because both PA and PB
increase in a, ?F0?a , 0. ?RS 0?S is negative (an increase in S increases PA
and decreases PB , decreasing RS !. ?F0?S 5 ~L0~S 1 1!!~?~PA 1 PB !0?L! has
the same sign as 2~1 2 2q ' !. Finally,

       ?RS
        ?a                   F
           5 w{d~1 2 q!{ ~1 2 q ' !
                                    ?PB
                                    ?q
                                            '
                                       ' 2 q {
                                               ?PA
                                               ?q '
                                                    1 X 2 PA 2 PB . G      (A10)


The bracketed term equals L{~L 1 S! times

           1 2 q'               q'                    1 2 2q '
                          2               1
      ~L 1 ~1 2 q ' !S! 2   ~L 1 q ' S! 2   ~L 1 q ' S!~L 1 ~1 2 q ' !S!
                  ~1 2 2q ' !L~2L 1 S!
          5                                      ,                         (A11)
              ~L 1 q ' S! 2 {~L 1 ~1 2 q ' !S! 2

which is proportional to 12 2q ' . This shows that J is positive. Thus, the sign
of da0dx is the opposite of that of the first determinant in the expression for
da0dx, which equals ~?F0?x!~?RS 0?S! 2 ~?F0?S!~?RS 0?x!.
  Now apply this to da0dn. We need to sign the determinant ~?F0?n!~?RS 0?S! 2
~?F0?S!~?RS 0?n!. Note that ?RS 0?n 5 2m{~?RS 0?L! 5 m{~~S 1 1!0L!~?RS 0?S!.
Now,

   ?F
   ?n     F
      5 d X 2 w{
                 ?~PA 1 PB !
                     ?L                  G
                             ~2m! 2 m 5 dX 2 m 1 m{
                                                    S 1 1 ?F
                                                      L
                                                         { ,
                                                          ?S
                                                                           (A12)
                                                                                             15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
126                            The Journal of Finance

so the determinant in question equals ~?RS 0?S!{@~?F0?n! 2 ~m~S 1 1!0L!{
~?F0?S!# 5 ~?RS 0?S!{dX, which is negative; this implies da0dn is positive and
proportional to dX.
  If equilibrium involves a 5 1, similar arguments to the case when a 5 0
show that prices are constant as long as speculators are active, so that a
remains at 1.
  Proposition 3(ii) follows directly from the discussion of the sign of the trad-
ing impact of intervention, combined with the derivation of n * given in (i).
  In (iii), a 5 1 requires that F . 0 for q ' 5 qmax . Because qmax . 12_ implies
1 2 2qmax , 0, the trading impact is negative, and F . 0 requires that the
direct impact dnX 2 m is strictly positive. Q.E.D.

  Proof of Corollary 4: (i) At n * , a 5 0 and F 5 0, so q ' 5 q and dn * X 1 dw~X 2
PA 2 PB ! 2 m [ H 5 0. By the Implicit Function Theorem, dn *0dq 5
2~?H0?q!0~?H0?n * ! 5 2w@?~X 2 PA 2 PB !0?q#0X. Substituting in for X 2 PA 2 PB
at q ' 5 q yields that dn *0dq has the same sign as


      2
           ?
            F      1 2 2q
          ?q L 1 LS 1 q~1 2 q!S 2
              2                       G   5
                                                      2
                                              L 1 LS 1 q~1 2 q!S 2
                                                  2


                                                            ~1 2 2q! 2 S 2
                                              1                                  ,   (A13)
                                                      ~L2 1 LS 1 q~1 2 q!S 2 ! 2

which is positive.
    (ii) From the proof of Proposition 3(i), da0dq equals 2@~?F0?x!~?RS 0?S! 2
~?F0?S!~?RS 0?x!# divided by J. As a and q only enter into F and RS through
q ' , it follows that da0dq equals 2~?q '0?q!0~?q '0?a! 5 2~1 2 ad!0~d~1 2 q!!;
and because a, d # 1, it follows that this is negative. Q.E.D.

  Proof of Corollary 5: (i) Note that at n * , a 5 0 initially and F 5 0, which
implies dn * X 1 dw~X 2 PA 2 PB ! 5 m . 0. n * X 1 w~X 2 PA 2 PB ! must be
positive for slightly smaller n as well, so the effect of an increase in d for n
just below n * is to increase F, and the point at which F first equals 0 moves
down.
  (ii) From the proof of Proposition 3(i), when n . n * , da0dd has the same
sign as 2@~?F0?d!~?RS 0?S! 2 ~?F0?S!~?RS 0?d! [ D. Noting that

                 ?F
                 ?d
                    5 nX 1 w~X 2 PA 2 PB ! 2 dw
                                                ?PA ?PB
                                                 ?d
                                                    1
                                                      ?d
                                                         ,  F            G           (A14)


and

                ?RS
                 ?d
                         F
                    5 w{ ~1 2 q ' !
                                    ?PB
                                     ?d
                                        2 q'
                                             ?PA
                                              ?d
                                                 2 ~PA 1 PB !
                                                              ?q '
                                                              ?d
                                                                   ,      G          (A15)
                                                                                                 15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
              Ownership Structure, Speculation, and Intervention                         127

D can be written as


    2@nX 1 w~X 2 PA 2 PB !#
                                   ?RS
                                    ?S
                                       1 dw 2 ~PA 1 PB !     F   ?PA
                                                                 ?S
                                                                     1
                                                                       ?PB
                                                                       ?S    G   ?q '
                                                                                 ?d

         1 dw 2   F   ?PA ?PB ?PB ?PA
                      ?q ' ?S
                              2
                                ?q ' ?S   G   ?q '
                                              ?d
                                                   .                                    (A16)


Because F $ 0 for n $ n * , nX 1 w~X 2 PA 2 PB ! $ m0d . 0, and the first
term in D is positive. The second term has the same sign as 1 2 2q ' , while
the third is negative ~PA and PB are increasing in q ' , PA is increasing in S,
and PB is decreasing in S!. Since ?q '0?d equals a~1 2 q!, when a or d is
sufficiently small, the second and third terms are negligible. Q.E.D.
   Proof of Corollary 6: (i) This follows from the impact of a change in X on
F for n close to n * ; this is more complicated than Corollary 5(i), because
although the direct impact of X on F is positive ~dnX 1 dw~X 2 PA 2 PB ! is
linear in X !, increasing X also increases speculators’ profits RS , which leads
to an increase in S. The net change in F is then ?F0?X 1 ~?F0?S!~dS0dX !.
Using the Implicit Function Theorem, dS0dX equals 2~?RS 0?X!~?RS 0?S!; al-
gebra (available on request) shows that the net effect is still positive. Intu-
itively, an increase in S decreases the magnitude of the trading impact, but
this is more than offset by the increase in magnitude that results from in-
creasing X.
   (ii) da0dX has the same sign as 2@~?F0?X !~?RS 0?S! 2 ~?F0?S!~?RS 0?X !#.
Algebra shows that this has the same sign as

       n@~1 2 q ' !~L 1 q ' S! 2 1 q ' {~L 1 ~1 2 q ' !S! 2 # 1 ~1 2 2q ' !wL2 ,        (A17)

which is positive when q ' # 2_1 and ambiguous otherwise. However, the brack-
eted term is greater than L2 , which exceeds ~1 2 2q ' !L2 , so if n is close
enough to w, this is positive even for q ' . 12_ . Q.E.D.
   Proof of Corollary 7: (i) Clearly, a change in g doesn’t affect nM . Higher g
raises the barrier to speculation, so there are fewer speculators. In the re-
gion n # n * , this increases the magnitude of the trading impact (more pos-
itive if q , 12_ , more negative if q . 12_ !, and n * moves in the same direction.
   (ii) da0dg has the same sign as 2@~?F0?g!~?RS 0?S! 2 ~?F0?S!~?RS 0?g!#. Since
?F0?g 5 0 and ?RS 0?g 5 21, this has the same sign as 2?F0?S, which is that
of 1 2 2q ' (see Proposition 3). Q.E.D.

                                     REFERENCES
Admati, Anat, and Paul Pfleiderer, 1989, Divide and conquer: A theory of intraday and day-of-
   the-week mean effects, Review of Financial Studies 2, 189–223.
Admati, Anat, Paul Pfleiderer, and Josef Zechner, 1994, Large shareholder activism, risk shar-
   ing, and financial market equilibrium, Journal of Political Economy 102, 1097–1130.
                                                                                                  15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
128                             The Journal of Finance

Anonymous, April 24, 1993, Shareholders call the plays, Economist, 83–84.
Ausubel, Lawrence, 1990, Insider trading in a rational expectations economy, American Eco-
    nomic Review 80, 1022–1041.
Bebchuk, Lucian, and Luigi Zingales, 1996, Corporate ownership structures: Private versus
    social optimality, Working paper, NBER.
Berlin, Mitchell, Kose John, and Anthony Saunders, 1996, Bank equity stakes in borrowing
    firms and financial distress, Review of Financial Studies 9, 889–919.
Bernhardt, Dan, Burton Hollifield, and Eric Hughson, 1995, Investment and insider trading,
    Review of Financial Studies 8, 501–543.
Bhide, Amar, 1993, The hidden costs of stock market liquidity, Journal of Financial Economics
    34, 31–51.
Bolton, Patrick, and Ernst-Ludwig von Thadden, 1998, Blocks, liquidity, and corporate control,
    Journal of Finance 53, 1–25.
Burkart, Mike, Denis Gromb, and Fausto Panunzi, 1997, Large shareholders, monitoring and
    the value of the firm, Quarterly Journal of Economics 112, 693–728.
Carey, Mark, Stephen Prowse, John Rea, and Gregory Udell, 1993, The economics of the private
    placement market, Staff study, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Easley, David, and Maureen O’Hara, 1992, Adverse selection and large trade volume: The impli-
    cations for market efficiency, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 27, 185–208.
Fishman, Michael, and Kathleen Hagerty, 1992, Insider trading and the efficiency of stock
    prices, RAND Journal of Economics 23, 106–122.
Grossman, Sanford, and Oliver Hart, 1980, Takeover bids, the free-rider problem, and the theory
    of the corporation, Bell Journal of Economics 11, 42–64.
Hertzel, Michael, and Richard Smith, 1993, Market discounts and shareholder gains for placing
    equity privately, Journal of Finance 48, 459–485.
Holmström, Bengt, and Jean Tirole, 1993, Market liquidity and performance monitoring, Jour-
    nal of Political Economy 101, 678–709.
Huddart, Steven, 1993, The effect of a large shareholder on corporate value, Management Sci-
    ence 39, 1407–1421.
Kahn, Charles, and Andrew Winton, 1996, Ownership structure, liquidity demand, and share-
    holder monitoring, Working paper, Northwestern University.
Kyle, Albert, and Jean-Luc Vila, 1991, Noise trading and takeovers, RAND Journal of Econom-
    ics 22, 54–71.
Leland, Hayne, 1992, Insider trading: Should it be prohibited? Journal of Political Economy
    100, 859–887.
Magnet, Myron, March 8, 1993, What activist investors want, Fortune, 59–63.
Maug, Ernst, 1998, Large shareholders as monitors: Is there a trade-off between liquidity and
    control? Journal of Finance 53, 65–98.
McGough, Robert, December 15, 1995, Fidelity managers spoke highly of 2 other stocks that
    were unloaded, Wall Street Journal, Section C, 1.
Mikkelson, Wayne, M. Megan Partch, and Ken Shah, 1995, Ownership and operating perfor-
    mance of companies that go public, Working paper, University of Oregon.
Morrow, David J., February 10, 1996, Fidelity discloses a big shift to cash by Magellan Fund,
    New York Times, 39.
Norris, Floyd, May 21, 1995, Fidelity’s Vinik continues to buy technology, New York Times,
    Section 3, 7.
Pagano, Marco, and Ailsa Röell, 1996, The choice of stock ownership structure: Agency costs,
    monitoring and the decision to go public, Working paper, London School of Economics.
Roe, Mark, 1994. Strong Managers, Weak Owners: The Political Roots of American Corporate
    Finance (Princeton University Press, Princeton, New Jersey).
Sheard, Paul, 1994, Interlocking shareholdings, corporate governance, and the Japanese firm,
    in M. Aoki and R. Dore, eds.: The Japanese Firm: The Sources of Competitive Strength
    (Oxford University Press, New York, N.Y.).
                                                                                                   15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.45483 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
               Ownership Structure, Speculation, and Intervention                          129

Shleifer, Andrei, and Robert Vishny, 1986, Large shareholders and corporate control, Journal of
    Political Economy 94, 461–488.
Silber, William, 1991, Discounts on restricted stock: The impact of illiquidity on stock prices,
    Financial Analysts Journal 47, 60–64.
Stoughton, Neil, and Josef Zechner, 1996, IPO-mechanisms, monitoring and ownership struc-
    ture, Working paper, University of California, Irvine.
Winton, Andrew, 1993, Limitation of liability and the ownership structure of the firm, Journal
    of Finance 48, 487–512.
Zeckhauser, Richard, and John Pound, 1990, Are large shareholders effective managers? An
    investigation of share ownership and corporate performance, in R. Glenn Hubbard, ed.:
    Asymmetric Information, Corporate Finance, and Investment (University of Chicago Press,
    Chicago, Ill.).
