THE JOURNAL OF FINANCE • VOL LIII, NO. 1 • FEBRUARY 1998




             Large Shareholders as Monitors:
         Is There a Trade-Off between Liquidity
                      and Control?

                                        ERNST MAUG*


                                          ABSTRACT
      This paper analyzes the incentives of large shareholders to monitor public corpora-
      tions. We investigate the hypothesis that a liquid stock market reduces large share-
      holders’ incentives to monitor because it allows them to sell their stocks more easily.
      Even though this is true, a liquid market also makes it less costly to hold larger stakes
      and easier to purchase additional shares. We show that this fact is important if mon-
      itoring is costly: market liquidity mitigates the problem that small shareholders free
      ride on the effort of the large shareholder. We find that liquid stock markets are ben-
      eficial because they make corporate governance more effective.




IS A LIQUID STOCK MARKET a liability for effective corporate governance? Casual
empiricism seems to suggest that a liquid market allows investors to sell out
if they receive adverse information about a company, and that, by contrast,
a less liquid market forces them to hold on to their investment and to use
their votes to influence the company to achieve better returns. A typical
example is British Airways’ experience, when its senior management came
under attack for using unfair competitive practices against one of its smaller
rivals, Virgin Atlantic. At the time, the Financial Times noted that Fidelity,
the second largest shareholder with a holding of 4.5 percent, “has disposed of
almost its entire position, and the Prudential and Standard Life stakes have

   *The author is with the Fuqua School of Business, Duke University. An earlier version of
this paper entitled “Institutional Investors as Monitors: On the Impact of Insider Trading Leg-
islation on Large Shareholder Activism” was presented at Birkbeck College, Duke University,
the European University Institute in Florence, HEC Lausanne, INSEAD, the London School of
Economics, Katholieke Universiteit de Leuven, Université Catholique de Louvain, the Univer-
sity of Southampton, the University of Vienna, the meetings of the Western Finance Association
in Aspen (1995), the Symposium in Financial Markets in Gerzensee (1995), the European Fi-
nance Association meetings in Milan (1995), and the CEPR conference on Market Microstruc-
ture in Barcelona (1996). I am grateful to the many seminar discussants for helpful comments.
I am indebted to an anonymous referee and Ron Anderson, Michael Bradley, Richard Brealey,
Judy Chevalier, Deborah DeMott, James Dow, Julian Franks, Denis Gromb, Michel Habib,
Steve Huddart, Jack Hughes, Pete Kyle, Anthony Neuberger, David Pyle, Ulf Schiller, René
Stulz (the editor), S. Viswanathan, Josef Zechner, and Luigi Zingales for stimulating discus-
sions and advice on this paper. Thanks are also due to Nancy Keeshan, Will Moore, and Cor-
nelia Wels-Maug for a meticulous reading of the manuscript to bring it into accord with the
rules of written English.

                                                65
                                                                                                    15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
66                               The Journal of Finance

fallen below 3 percent.” 1 Likewise, on a theoretical level, Bhide (1993) has
argued that liquid stock markets are a hindrance for effective governance,
and Coffee (1991) entitled his essay “Liquidity versus control.” 2 However,
even though public markets are more liquid and efficient than ever, share-
holder monitoring seems to be increasing; as takeovers have become less
frequently used as a means to correct managerial failure, large institutional
shareholders (notably CalPERS and other public pension funds) have at-
tempted to achieve higher portfolio returns through governance-related ac-
tivities.3 More recently, The Wall Street Journal has observed that individual
investors as well have built up minority stakes in order to influence man-
agement.4 There seems to be no clear-cut evidence for the claim that increas-
ing stock market liquidity reduces monitoring by outside shareholders.
   This paper investigates the claim that liquid stock markets prevent effec-
tive corporate governance and argues that the alleged trade-off between li-
quidity and control does not exist. It is easy to accept the argument that in
a more liquid stock market it is less costly to sell a large stake. However, by
the same token, such a market also makes it easier for investors to accu-
mulate large stakes without substantially affecting the stock price and to
capitalize on governance-related activities. The last point is extensively an-
alyzed in relation to takeovers by Kyle and Vila (1991). Liquid stock markets
have two opposing effects on corporate governance. On the one hand, liquid
markets can facilitate the exercise of corporate control because they allow
large shareholders to emerge to correct managerial failure. At the same time
liquid markets also allow large shareholders to dispose of their shares ahead
of an expected fall in stock prices rather than to become involved in a com-
pany’s management. Which of these effects dominates is an issue that needs
to be investigated, and theoretical results have remained ambiguous so far.
However, this paper shows that the impact of liquidity on corporate control
is unambiguously positive.
   The first objective of this paper is to provide an analytical framework of a
stock market economy in which the emergence of large blockholders with
incentives to monitor companies can be discussed. Here and following, the
word “monitoring” is used as a comprehensive label for all value-enhancing
activities; it comprises intervention in a company’s affairs as well as infor-
mation acquisition (e.g., in order to identify a potential target of interven-
tion) and is used synonymously with “intervention” and “shareholder activism.”

  1
     Cleaning up ‘the world’s favourite airline’: British Airways’ directors meet today to decide
on action, Financial Times, January 21, 1993.
   2
     See Charkham (1994) for a critical analysis of market-based corporate governance and
arguments for strengthening monitoring by large institutional shareholders.
   3
     See Nesbitt (1994) for an analysis of campaigns by CalPERS; see Black (1992b) for an
institutional analysis of large shareholder monitoring in the United States and Black and Cof-
fee (1994) for the United Kingdom.
   4
     ‘Noisemakers’ buy small stakes and put big heat on companies, The Wall Street Journal, 6
January 1995, C1. A case that probably received much public attention was Kirk Kerkorian’s
attempted takeover of Chrysler Corporation in 1995.
                                                                                                15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
                          Large Shareholders as Monitors                                  67

The model studies the decision-making process of a large shareholder to
monitor a company. The large shareholder faces a free-rider problem be-
cause she bears the costs of monitoring alone, whereas all the small share-
holders benefit from her monitoring efforts. The impact of free riding depends
on the equilibrium size of the large shareholder, which also has two other
effects. First, owning a larger stake makes the return on the company’s shares
more significant for the large shareholder, hence it biases her toward inter-
vention. We call this the lock-in effect. Second, if a larger fraction of the total
shares is owned by the large shareholder, then fewer shares are held by
households, making the market less liquid in these shares. We call this the
liquidity effect. This loss of liquidity reduces the large shareholder’s ex-
pected gains from trading on private information.5 Because a larger stake
biases the large shareholder towards more shareholder activism, she can use
either a larger initial stake to commit to more interventions or a smaller
stake to avoid being so committed. The large shareholder makes profits on
her activities in two ways. She makes a direct profit through trading at the
expense of uninformed liquidity traders (households), because the mere fact
that she has decided to monitor a company provides her with private infor-
mation relative to the market. She also makes a profit on her initial stake
because shares initially trade below their intrinsic value: households are
only willing to hold shares at an adverse selection discount that reflects the
expected loss from trading with informed investors in the future.
   The second objective of this paper is an analysis of the relationship be-
tween stock market liquidity and corporate governance. It will be shown
that in equilibrium the large shareholder will purchase a stake in the firm
that is too small in the following sense: the capital gain on her initial stake
does not cover the costs of monitoring. Part of the incentive to monitor, there-
fore, comes from the ability to purchase additional shares in the stock mar-
ket at a price that does not reflect the large shareholder’s improvements. As
a result, the large shareholder’s engagement in shareholder activism in-
creases with the liquidity of the market. This result runs counter to the
conventional wisdom that liquid markets discourage large, activist share-
holders. Liquid markets help investors overcome the free-rider problem. So-
cial optimality of the allocation would be achieved only if the large shareholder
could be locked into an initial stake sufficiently large to commit her to mon-
itor. However, such an arrangement implies a loss for the large shareholder,
and she would never enter such a commitment. In a less liquid market the
large investor will simply choose a smaller stake.
   When initial shareholders write the corporate charter, they can influence
the governance of the company. The charter can require more stringent ma-
jorities in a voting contest so that the large shareholder has to accumulate a
larger stake in order to be able to monitor. Reducing market liquidity and
increasing majority requirements both imply that the stake of the large share-

  5
   Consider the extreme case where the large investor holds all shares. Then market liquidity
would be zero. See Bolton and von Thadden (1998) for an alternative analysis of this effect.
                                                                                               15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
68                             The Journal of Finance

holder becomes less liquid, for the important consideration is the size of the
large shareholder’s block relative to the liquidity of the market. Although
both measures reduce the liquidity of large blocks, they have the opposite
effect on monitoring—reducing the liquidity of the market reduces monitor-
ing, whereas increasing the majority requirement for a governance contest
increases monitoring. A higher majority requirement forces the large inves-
tor to accumulate a larger stake to be effective, and this in turn implies that
she needs to precommit herself to a higher level of monitoring.6 If founding
shareholders cannot extract rents from future large shareholders in this way,
their desire to increase the value of the company and to reduce the rents
large shareholders can extract from monitoring will cause them to prefer a
lower liquidity of the market than is socially optimal.
   Some investors can choose to intervene in a company through a hostile
takeover or they can take a less adversarial approach to influence the com-
pany. Institutions are often legally prohibited from hostile bidding and choose
direct negotiations with senior managers or proposals at annual general meet-
ings to pursue their objectives. The model distinguishes these approaches
with respect to their costs and their effectiveness, where effectiveness is
measured as the likelihood of successfully restructuring the firm. Typically,
takeovers are more costly than a voting contest, but they also have a higher
probability of success because they do not depend on other shareholders’
voting behavior. This is a plausible expectation, but not inevitably true. The
model below makes no such formal assumption and also covers the cases
where takeovers are less successful or less costly. Ultimately, this is an em-
pirical question. If the stock market is illiquid, the large shareholder prefers
the less costly method of restructuring the firm, as she cannot benefit from
incurring these costs through trading with uninformed investors. In a more
liquid market she can profit from informed trading. Because trading profits
are proportional to a stock’s volatility, she will be biased towards the restruc-
turing method that has the higher probability of making a more pronounced
impact on the company’s value and stock price. Trading in more liquid mar-
kets helps the large shareholder to pass on part of the restructuring costs to
uninformed shareholders, thus making the cost aspect less important. Hence,
in a more liquid market the large shareholder prefers the more effective
method of restructuring, whereas in an illiquid market she tends to favor
the cheaper method of restructuring. In summary, the paper concludes that
liquid stock markets are generally beneficial for corporate governance.
   Section I discusses the literature. Section II sets out the basic elements of
the model. Section III analyzes the model for the case of one large sharehol-
der who can monitor the firm and derives the impact of liquidity on moni-
toring. Section IV introduces takeovers into the analysis, and Section V
discusses the empirical and institutional aspects of shareholder activism.

   6
     This argument ignores the fact that some shareholders are not allowed to hold a stake
above a certain limit in any individual company (for mutual funds in the United States, this
limit is 5 percent).
                                                                                  15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
                      Large Shareholders as Monitors                        69

Section VI concludes. Appendix A contains a generalization of the model. All
proofs are in Appendix B.

                     I. Discussion of the Literature
   Several topics addressed in this paper have been discussed by Admati,
Pfleiderer, and Zechner (1994) and Kahn and Winton (1995). Admati et al.
analyze the impact of shareholder activism on portfolio allocations. They
focus on the trade-off between risk sharing and concentrated ownership and
analyze the case of an individual investor with an exogenously given stake.
In contrast to Admati et al., this paper analyzes a noisy rational expecta-
tions model of the stock market with only one stock and risk-neutral agents
and a large investor who is constituted endogenously. Kahn and Winton also
analyze the relationship between liquidity and monitoring by a large share-
holder. They show that the choice between monitoring and informed trading
relies on the relative benefit0cost ratios of these actions. In their paper the
large shareholder has two options: to become an informed insider or a mon-
itor, as mutually exclusive alternatives. Therefore, their analysis does not
address the crucial conflict of interest experienced by a large shareholder
who has identified an underperforming company and has to decide between
selling on this information or intervening. They also make the initial allo-
cation of shares between the large shareholder and small shareholders a
decision of the entrepreneur in the initial placement, thus ignoring the fact
that this allocation can be undone in secondary markets. An important con-
tribution of this paper is its emphasis on an ownership structure that is
robust to retrading in secondary markets; other papers assume that the rel-
evant ownership structure is the initial one determined in the IPO.
   Bolton and von Thadden’s (1998) analysis of market liquidity focuses on
the initial ownership structure of the firm, and Stoughton and Zechner (1995)
discuss the case of a large shareholder who receives a block in the initial
placement. Both papers rely on frictions in secondary markets that prevent
the undoing effect analyzed in this paper. Zwiebel (1995) takes an altogether
different approach by emphasizing that blockholders can extract private ben-
efits of control. His approach is complementary to the analysis here, which
focuses on the pecuniary benefits of blockholders that are common to all
shareholders rather than on private benefits.
   The literature on hostile takeovers has also discussed the role of large
shareholders, notably in papers by Shleifer and Vishny (1986) and Kyle and
Vila (1991). However, Shleifer and Vishny do not analyze how a large stake
could emerge. Kyle and Vila are closer to the approach taken in the current
paper, as they also observe that the investor who acquires a toehold before
intervening in the management of the company can gain if the market can-
not detect this purchase. They perform comparative static analysis in terms
of the size of the initial stake held by the large investor, but they do not
endogenize the decision to hold such a stake, so their analysis of the impact
of market liquidity remains ambiguous. Other aspects of concentrated own-
                                                                                                15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
70                              The Journal of Finance

ership are addressed by Huddart (1993), Burkart, Gromb, and Panunzi (1994),
and Dewatripont (1993).
  The current model uses standard workhorses and follows Kyle (1985) and
Admati and Pfleiderer (1988) for modeling the market structure. The fact
that stock will be issued with an adverse selection discount if prices are
generated by this structure has already been used by Khanna, Slezak, and
Bradley (1994), Holmström and Tirole (1993), and Bernhardt, Hollifield, and
Hughson (1995). Note that here, unlike in Khanna et al., the company’s ex
ante objective and the social objective coincide. The main difference to their
model is that, although households may have to sell involuntarily, there are
no traders who buy involuntarily. In the current paper, the difference be-
tween social and private objectives comes from the free-rider problem and
the rents extracted by large investors.
  The institutional framework for large shareholder monitoring is described
by Black (1992a) for the United States and by Black and Coffee (1994) for
the United Kingdom. Also, Coffee (1991), Gordon (1991), and Grundfest (1993)
elaborate on different aspects of institutional shareholders’ scope for gover-
nance activities from a law and economics perspective; however, these pa-
pers do not develop an analytical framework to support their claims.


                                    II. The Model
  Assume that the economy has only one firm with assets in place that have
payoff nI at the end of the period. It is common knowledge that the assets are
worth L in their current use but that the payoff would be higher if the firm
were restructured. In this case the payoff would be H, where L , H. The
incumbent management is assumed to be unwilling to effect these changes.
However, a large outside shareholder with sufficient voting power could force
the management to restructure the assets and generate a payoff of H. Al-
ternatively, assume that the management is unable to generate higher re-
turns and that the large shareholder has sufficient power to replace
management. The number of shares in this firm is normalized to 1 and held
by a continuum of households. All households have the same shareholdings,
and the total measure of households is 1. There is one large investor or large
shareholder F that is distinguished from households in two respects:
  • F is not subject to liquidity shocks, and
  • F can monitor and improve the management of the firm; this affects the
    value of the firm such that nI 5 H, and F incurs monitoring costs cM
    where cM , H 2 L.
   Monitoring can include diverse activities, ranging from voting against take-
over defenses to commissioning independent consulting reports.7 Institu-
tional investors in the United States targeted takeover-related issues in the

  7
    See Nesbitt (1994) for a survey of the intervention used by CalPERS and Black (1992a) for
a general survey of monitoring activities and the institutional and legal framework.
                                                                                               15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
                          Large Shareholders as Monitors                                 71




Figure 1. Extensive form of the game.


1980s and then changed their strategies to focus more on performance and
governance-related issues (e.g., confidential voting).8
  Both households and the large investor can also invest in a risk-free asset.
The return on the risk-free asset is zero. All investors are risk neutral. House-
holds suffer liquidity shocks that force them to sell their assets, and these
shocks are correlated across households. In particular, there is a total prob-
ability of 102 that f households, 0 , f , 1, are subject to such a shock and
sell their total holdings of shares and the risk-free asset. Hence:
  with probability 102, 0 households sell their shares;
  with probability 102, f households sell their shares.
   Note this implies that the ex ante probability for any household to suffer a
liquidity shock is f02. The structure of the market is like Kyle (1985).9 House-
holds and F submit their orders to a market maker who can observe the total
net order flow y. The price of the security is then set by the market maker ac-
cording to its expected value, conditional on the order flow: P1 5 E~ In6 y!.
   Initially, all shares are owned by households. Then F trades with house-
holds by exchanging shares in the company against the risk-free asset. This
trade takes place at a price P0 , and after this trade F owns a stock a and
households own the remaining 1 2 a shares. The timing of events is given in
Figure 1.


                                     III. Analysis
  The analysis proceeds by solving the model backward, using subgame per-
fection as a solution concept. Initially, F ’s shareholdings are taken exog-
enously in order to solve the subgame starting with a given allocation of

  8
     See, e.g., Gillan and Starks (1995), Nesbitt (1994), and Wahal (1996).
  9
     The discrete version of the model has been used by Dow and Gorton (1994) and Bernhardt
et al. (1995). Since a binary Kyle-model and a Glosten–Milgrom (1985) type model are similar
(see Krishnan 1992), this modeling choice has no substantial consequences for the analysis.
                                                                                                 15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
72                              The Journal of Finance

shares (stages 2–5 in Figure 1). Later, the equilibrium size of F ’s investment
is derived endogenously.

A. The Liquidity Effect and the Lock-In Effect
  The portfolio allocation at the initial stage 1 is taken as given. Suppose
that a shares are owned by F and 1 2 a shares are owned by households. If
all households were subject to a liquidity shock, they would be trading 1 2 a
shares. Hence, if f households are subject to a liquidity shock, they sell a
total of f~1 2 a! shares to the market maker (this happens with probability
102). Households hold their wealth partly in the form of shares and partly in
the form of a risk-free asset. A household subject to a liquidity shock sells all
assets—that is, all shares and all holdings of the risk-free asset. Obviously,
the more shares that are held by F, the smaller the aggregate sales by house-
holds and the less liquid the market in shares. In the extreme case where F
holds all shares in the company, the market would be completely illiquid.
This has an impact on the decision of the large shareholder between buying0
improving and selling. Without loss of generality assume that F plays a
mixed strategy as follows:
  With probability q:     Buy shares in the firm, intervene, and improve
                          management. In this case F buys a quantity
                          x B . 0.
  With probability 1 2 q: Sell and do not intervene in the management of
                          the firm. In this case F buys a quantity x S , 0.
   It can be easily shown that all other strategies (e.g., “buy without moni-
toring” or “sell and monitor”) are strictly dominated (see a detailed discus-
sion below equation (5)). Assume that F can only be effective if she controls
a sufficient amount of shares m.10 In this case, m depends on a number of
factors and does not need to be 0.5. It can be larger if the restructuring
decision (e.g., asset sales) requires more than a majority of the votes. How-
ever, m can also be smaller, because F may be able to depend on other voters
like smaller blockholders.11 Hence, F can only monitor if a 1 x B $ m for some
m [ @0,1#. There are no short sales constraints, hence it is not required that
x S 1 a $ 0. In order to be able to gain from trading, F must confound the
information contained in the order flow with the liquidity trading from house-
holds. This requires that the market maker cannot distinguish between the
case where F buys and households sell, and the case where F sells and house-
holds are not subject to a liquidity shock. This gives the following condition:


                x S 1 0 5 x B 2 f~1 2 a! m x B 2 x S 5 f~1 2 a!.                          (1)

  10
     See Dewatripont (1993) for a similar assumption.
  11
     See Zwiebel (1995) for a detailed analysis of cooperation among blocktraders of different
sizes and noise traders.
                                                                                               15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
                          Large Shareholders as Monitors                                 73

Therefore, once F has chosen how much she wants to buy if she monitors
~x B !, x S is given by equation (1). Note that (1) also assumes that F trades
anonymously as well as before the market discovers her decision to monitor
or not to monitor. Hence, any disclosure requirement that forces F to pub-
licize her trades prior to trading would effectively limit market liquidity and
the quantities she can trade. However, anonymity of trading does not re-
quire that F conceals her monitoring activities subsequent to trading. Simi-
larly, requirements to file trades with regulatory authorities after completing
a transaction do not affect F ’s trading strategy.
   Assume for simplicity that F chooses symmetric trading quantities x B 5
2x S 5 f~1 2 a!02. This assumption does not affect the results because F has
two variables that determine her trading intensity: the amount she trades
x B (or x S ! and the randomizing probability q.12 These two variables are con-
strained by only one equation, namely the indifference condition for random-
ization. Hence, one variable can be arbitrarily chosen.13 For notational
convenience, define u [ f~1 2 a!02. Table I gives the possible combinations
of transactions and their probabilities as well as the prices set by the market
maker.
   Hence, the order flow has three possible realizations: 23u, 2u, and u. If
the order flow is either 23u or u, then the market maker can infer the value
of profits perfectly, and the stock price is fully revealing. If the order flow is
2u, no information is revealed to the market maker, and the price is un-
informative. Denote by E~P6S! the expected price per share at which F sells
and by E~P6B! the expected price per share at which she buys. If F buys, the
order will be executed at the prices P1 5 H and P1 5 qH 1 ~1 2 q!L with
equal probability; whereas if F sells, the prices are L and qH 1 ~1 2 q!L
with equal probability, hence,

                 H   qH 1 ~1 2 q!L                         L   qH 1 ~1 2 q!L
     E~P6B! 5      1                          E~P6S! 5       1               .          (2)
                 2         2                               2         2

  These expressions can now be used to calculate the expected payoff from
buying and monitoring as

                                        f~1 2 a! 1 2 q
    u@H 2 E~P6B!# 1 aH 2 cM 5                          ~H 2 L! 1 aH 2 cM .              (3)
                                           2       2

  The total payoff consists of the gains from trade, monitoring costs, and the
return to the initial portfolio holdings a. The first expression is simply the
quantity traded multiplied by the expected gains per share bought or sold.

   12
      Appendix A analyzes the general asymmetric case and shows that the results below are
robust with respect to this assumption.
   13
      The advantage of this choice is that the model behaves more closely to the equivalent
Glosten–Milgrom (1985) model (see Krishnan (1992)). Effectively, this degree of freedom is a
result of the discrete state space used here.
                                                                                                        15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
74                                The Journal of Finance

                                              Table I
                          Order Flows and Market Prices
The table gives all possible realizations of the aggregate order flow in the first column. The
same order flow can result from different combinations of transactions by households ~HH ! and
the large shareholder ~F! (column 2). f is the liquidity parameter (size of households’ aggregate
liquidity shock), a is the initial stake of the large investor, q is the probability of monitoring by
the large investor, L is firm value if the large investor does not monitor, H is firm value if the
large investor monitors, and u 5 f~1 2 a!02 is one transaction unit. The second to last column
gives the intrinsic value depending on the intervention of the large shareholder. The last col-
umn shows the price set by the market maker, who can only observe the aggregate order flow.

Order Flow            Transactions             Probability           Value                Price
u                    F buys u                q/2                     H              H
                     HH sell 0
2u                   (i) F buys u            (i) q/2                 H              qH 1 ~1 2 q!L
                         HH sell 2u
2u                   (ii) F sells u          (ii) ~1 2 q!/2          L              qH 1 ~1 2 q!L
                          HH sell 0
23u                  F sells u               ~1 2 q!/2               L              L
                     HH sell 2u




Similarly, the expected payoff from selling can be calculated as

                                                f~1 2 a! q
              2u@L 2 E~P6S!# 1 aL 5                        ~H 2 L! 1 aL.                          (4)
                                                   2     2

  Then, in equilibrium, the randomizing probability q must equal the mar-
ket maker’s beliefs about the distribution of nI [ $L, H %. The market maker
must set prices so as to make F indifferent between selling and buying.
Equating (3) and (4) gives

                                     1   2~cM 2 a~H 2 L!!
                              q5       2                  .                                       (5)
                                     2   f~1 2 a!~H 2 L!

   If q were higher, the market maker would expect more buying orders and
a higher probability of nI 5 H. Hence, P1 would be set higher, and the profit
from the strategy “sell and don’t intervene” would exceed the profit from the
alternative “buy and improve” strategy; that is, (3) would be strictly smaller
than (4). Hence, selling would always be optimal. Conversely, if q were lower,
P1 would be lower, and buying would always be optimal. The unique equi-
librium has q as defined in (5). Equation (5) gives the randomizing proba-
bility q, provided the expression lies in the unit interval. If expression (5)
exceeds one, then F monitors and buys u shares with certainty ~q 5 1!. If (5)
is negative, then F never monitors ~q 5 0!. We can now verify that all strat-
egies other than “sell and do not intervene” and “buy and improve” are never
chosen in equilibrium. Note that in any equilibrium, F expects to trade at
                                                                                    15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
                       Large Shareholders as Monitors                         75

prices that lie between the two payoffs, L and H. Because the strategy “buy
and do not intervene” yields a profit of E~P6B! 2 H # 0 per share and the strat-
egy “sell and monitor” yields L 2 E~P6S! # 0 per share, both expressions are
never positive in any conceivable equilibrium. However, (3) and (4) above are
strictly positive; hence, they strictly dominate all these alternatives.
   Expected trading profits can be calculated directly by multiplying the prof-
its from buying by q and the profits from selling by 1 2 q, and then adding.
This gives


                 ~1 2 a!   F   f
                               2                 G
                                 q~1 2 q!~H 2 L! [ ~1 2 a!G,                  (6)


where the expression in brackets defines G as the expected trading profits
per share owned (and traded) by households, so that ~1 2 a!G denotes the
expected profits from trading. The expected net trading profits are therefore

                                  ~1 2 a!G 2 qcM .                            (7)

   The expression for trading profits in (6) is closely related to the one de-
rived in continuous state space versions of the market model. First, F ’s prof-
its are related to the depth of the market, that is, to the degree in which a
trade moves the price. (Represent this relation as l in parallel to Kyle (1985)).
l can best be defined by the difference between the price at which the large
shareholder expects to sell and the price at which she expects to buy, relative
to the spread between prices if they were fully revealing, ~H 2 L!:

                                E~P1 6B! 2 E~P1 6S!  1
                       l5                           5 .                       (8)
                                      H2L            2

   In an infinitely deep market E~P6B! 5 E~P6S! and l 5 0; whereas if trades
always move prices to the fully revealing level, then l 5 1. Hence, define
depth as 1 2 l, that is, as the probability that market prices are not fully
revealing (here, l 5 102), so that trading profits are proportional to the
depth of the market. They are also proportional to the liquidity of the mar-
ket measured by f~1 2 a!, a measure of uninformed trading: the larger the
expected proportion of households that sell, the larger is the size of the trans-
actions F can undertake. Finally, G is closely related to the variance of the
final payoff, which is Var~ In! 5 q~1 2 q!~H 2 L! 2 . If F does not randomize,
then the payoff of the company is known with certainty and trading profits
are zero. Hence, F ’s trading profits can be written as

                                  Var~ In!
                  ~1 2 a!G 5               p ~1 2 l! p f~1 2 a!.              (9)
                                  H2L
                                                                                                15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
76                              The Journal of Finance

  Thus, profits are a product of liquidity and depth and are a measure of the
dispersion of the firm’s profits. Finally, in order to be effective when moni-
toring, F needs to own sufficiently many shares. After purchasing additional
shares, her total must exceed m. The following proposition summarizes the
results for this situation.
PROPOSITION 1 (Equilibrium): Assume the large shareholder has an initial
stake a, and her total stake after purchasing u additional shares in the mar-
ket is sufficient to exercise voting control ~a 1 u $ m!. Then there is a unique
equilibrium where the large shareholder monitors the firm with probability q
(q is given by (5)). The probability of monitoring increases in F’s initial stake
a and decreases in the monitoring costs cM .
   It is easy to see that there is a Bayesian equilibrium in pure strategies
that is equivalent to this mixed-strategy equilibrium. In this case F is of
different types distinguished by her monitoring costs cI M , and these costs are
her private information. Then F will monitor if and only if her costs are
below a critical level c[ and q 5 Prob~ cI # [c!.14 Then the market maker and all
other investors will perceive F ’s strategy as random because they do not
know her costs. These costs can then also be interpreted as F ’s (unknown)
ability to monitor.
   The randomizing probability q can be viewed as an indicator of the welfare
properties of the allocation, since an incremental increase in q by Dq yields
a welfare increase of Dq~H 2 L 2 cM ! . 0. Equation (5) shows that q de-
creases if the costs of monitoring increase. This is very intuitive, as moni-
toring should become less attractive as its costs rise. The initial stake a
affects q in two ways.15 First, the larger the initial stake a, the more impor-
tant to the gains from trade is the payoff on the portfolio holding a and,
hence, the more F is locked into the firm and committed to monitoring—this
is the lock-in effect. Second, a higher a reduces the liquidity of the market
because a smaller amount of shares held by households implies that fewer
shares are traded. For this reason, the factor 1 2 a multiplies the liquidity
parameter f in the denominator of (5)—this is the liquidity effect. However,
the randomizing probability q increases in the liquidity of the market f if
and only if

                                           cM
                                     a,       ,                                         (10)
                                          H2L

and it decreases in f whenever the reverse inequality holds. Equation (10)
says that the portion of the benefits from monitoring that accrue to the large
shareholder, equal to a~H 2 L!, is not sufficient to cover the costs from
monitoring cM . The rationale for this result is that a more liquid stock mar-

  14
      For a textbook exposition of the purification theorem, see Fudenberg and Tirole (1991),
pp. 233 ff.
   15
      The endogenous determination of a is deferred to Section III.B below. The remainder of
this section analyzes the comparative statics of the equilibrium in terms of a given a.
                                                                                              15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
                          Large Shareholders as Monitors                                77

ket makes it easier for F to sell and exit from this firm, but such a market
also facilitates buying and therefore monitoring. Which of these two effects
dominates depends on whether (10) is satisfied or not. Equation (10) is there-
fore critical for several results below. The increased ease of selling and avoid-
ing the monitoring cost is the effect conventionally associated with the
argument that more liquid markets make monitoring less likely.16 However,
a more liquid stock market also makes it easier to camouflage share pur-
chases and therefore increases the benefits from monitoring. Equation (10)
gives the criterion as to which of these two effects dominates. If a~H 2 L! ,
cM , then F would never monitor if she could not trade. The free-rider prob-
lem is severe, since she bears all the costs and receives only a fraction a of
the benefits from monitoring, which are too small to reimburse her for the
costs incurred. However, a more liquid market gives her a second source of
benefits from monitoring through higher trading gains, and the more liquid
the stock market, the higher these trading gains and the greater the op-
portunity to benefit from monitoring. Hence, if a~H 2 L! , cM , a more liq-
uid stock market helps to overcome the free-rider problem. Conversely, if
a~H 2 L! . cM , then F already has a sufficient incentive to monitor on the
basis of her portfolio holdings in the company, and she would always monitor
if she could not trade. Then a more liquid stock market reduces the degree
of lock-in and therefore F ’s incentives to monitor. For brevity, we will refer
to cM 0~H 2 L! as that stake where F recovers her costs, because at this stake
the capital gain on her initial stake just equals her monitoring costs. How-
ever, note that because F can recover some costs through trading, a , cM 0
~H 2 L! does not imply that she makes negative expected profits.

PROPOSITION 2 (Liquidity): The probability that the large shareholder moni-
tors decreases in the liquidity of the market iff she can recover the costs of
monitoring through a capital gain on her initial stake a.
   Hence, the sign of the liquidity effect depends on whether a is larger or
smaller than the smallest stake that enables F to recover her monitoring
costs. We therefore need to determine the initial stake a held by F in equi-
librium. This will be undertaken in Section III.B below.
   If F owned a sufficiently large initial stake, she would internalize a large
enough proportion of the gains from active monitoring to make this activity
always worthwhile and the social optimum would be implemented:

PROPOSITION 3 (Social Optimum): The social optimum is achieved only if the
initial stake of the large shareholder exceeds a threshold a * . In this case F
monitors with probability one and her trading gains are zero. The threshold
a * strictly exceeds the value cM 0~H 2 L! where F recovers her costs, and the
difference between a * and cM 0~H 2 L! is strictly increasing in the liquidity of
the market f.

  16
     See, e.g., Bhide (1993) for an exposition of this argument, and Bolton and von Thadden
(1998) for a formalization.
                                                                                  15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
78                         The Journal of Finance

   This shows that even if the free-rider problem could be overcome in prin-
ciple such that a $ cM 0~H 2 L!, there is still an incongruence remaining
between F ’s objectives and social welfare. F trades off gains from monitoring
against gains from trading, whereas the only social gains are the gains from
monitoring. If the large shareholder holds more than a * shares, her objective
is perfectly aligned with maximizing social welfare. Therefore, a * is large
enough for the benefits from monitoring to compensate F, not only for the
costs of monitoring, but also for the foregone profits from selling overpriced
shares. Thus, a * is significantly larger than the stake a 5 cM0~H 2 L! that
is just sufficient to cover the monitoring costs. Moreover, the higher the
liquidity of the market, the larger are F ’s opportunity costs of not selling.
Hence, the gap between a * and cM 0~H 2 L! increases in f.
   For maximizing total welfare, it would be optimal to have F commit to
hold a $ a * , to ensure that she always monitors. However, from Proposi-
tion 2, this implies that G 5 0; then, from Proposition 1, total profits are
2cM , 0; that is, F would bear all the costs without any trading benefit. This
follows because F benefits from the volatility of the end of period payoff
because the trading gains G are proportional to the dispersion of final pay-
offs. If she always monitored, this volatility would be zero, and so would her
trading profits. Hence, F can use the initial investment a in order to in-
crease the uncertainty she creates over final holdings and, thereby, to in-
crease her trading gains. Before the trade-offs involved in this consideration
are taken up below, note that the trading gains G are maximized if the
randomizing probability q is equal to 102. This leads to the following result
which also follows immediately from Proposition 1 and equation (5):

COROLLARY 1 (Cost Coverage): The randomizing probability q maximizes the
uncertainty over final payoffs and the gains from trading G if and only if the
capital gains from monitoring on the initial stake a exactly cover the costs of
monitoring, that is, a(H 2 L) 5 cM.
  Hence, the gains from trade depend crucially on a. At the social optimum
a 5 a * , F ’s gains from trade are minimized because she is locked in, whereas
at the smaller value a 5 cM 0~H 2 L! the gains from trade G are maximized.
The endogenous determination of a is analyzed in the next section.

B. The Initial Stake of the Large Shareholder: The Commitment-Effect
   The important observation for determining a endogenously is that F makes
profits from two sources: First, from trading because of asymmetric infor-
mation and, second, from the purchase of the initial stake at price P0 rela-
tive to the expected price for which F would liquidate her initial stake. The
expected price per share F receives when liquidating her holding is the in-
trinsic ex ante value, namely qH 1 ~12 q!L. Households also receive this
price per share if they do not have to liquidate their stock holdings in the
intermediate period and hold them until the final period. This happens with
probability 1 2 f02. With probability f02, a household has to sell its stake
                                                                                    15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
                       Large Shareholders as Monitors                         79

when a proportion f of the other households liquidate their stakes. This
household receives a price P1 , where P1 is the price established by the mar-
ket maker (cf. Table I above): P1 5 L if F sells and P1 5 qH 1 ~1 2 q!L if she
buys. It is only in the last case that households lose money because they sell
at qH 1 ~1 2 q!L even though the shares are intrinsically worth H. Hence,
households lose H 2 ~qH 1 ~1 2 q!L! with probability qf02. Because the
initial share price is determined by the valuation of households, P0 is lower
than qH 1 ~1 2 q!L for this reason:

                                      qf
              P0 5 qH 1 ~1 2 q!L 2       ~qH 2 ~qH 1 ~1 2 q!L!!
                                       2
                 5 qH 1 ~1 2 q!L 2 G.                                        (11)

   The shares are trading at an adverse selection discount to their intrinsic
value that is exactly equivalent to F ’s trading gains per share. This is intu-
itive as the initial market in shares will only clear if the shares are fairly
priced from the point of view of households who are the marginal investors.
If households expected to make a loss on purchasing shares, they would not
buy them, and the market would not clear at P0 . Conversely, if households
expected to profit from buying shares, there would be excess demand for
shares. Because F is not subject to liquidity shocks, she makes profits from
two sources: from trading against uninformed traders and from purchasing
shares at a discount to their intrinsic value. F buys a shares at P0 and
expects to liquidate them at H with probability q, and at L with probability
1 2 q. Then, total benefits from the initial purchase are

                       a~qH 1 ~1 2 q!L 2P0 ! 5 aG.                          (12)

  F obtains the same profits per share from both sources: from informed
trading and from the discount per share received at t 5 0, when F buys the
initial stake a. The latter is equal to the expected loss (per share) that house-
holds suffer in equilibrium. Adding the trading gains from (7) to the profits
on initial purchases from equation (12) gives

                    ~1 2 a!G 2 qcM 1 aG 5 G 2 qcM .                         (13)

  As a result of equation (13), the size of the initial stake a enters F ’s total
profits only indirectly through determining q and hence G. F gains from
active monitoring only through the uncertainty she creates over final payoffs
(reflected in G). Specifically, it is not by affecting the mean of the company’s
payoffs that she gains from her improvements, for these are always reflected
in the share price—letting all other shareholders free ride on F ’s activism.
This leads to the following proposition, which gives the main result of this
                                                                                                15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
80                              The Journal of Finance

section for the case where the voting constraint is not binding (where m is
not too large).17

PROPOSITION 4 (Commitment-effect): Assume the large shareholder chooses
her initial stake a so that she maximizes her payoff from this investment.
Then she invests in a positive initial stake a[ that is strictly smaller than the
stake cM 0~H 2 L! where she recovers her costs. Also, her equilibrium proba-
bility of monitoring the firm, [q, increases strictly in the liquidity of the stock
market. The expressions for a[ and q[ are:

                             cM                      1      cM
                 a[ 5                         q[ 5     2          .                     (14)
                        2~H 2 L! 2 cM                2   f~H 2 L!

   Two opposing effects drive the choice of the optimal size of the initial share-
holding a. A large investor has a comparatively larger incentive to monitor
and therefore a larger expected monitoring cost from the lock-in effect. At
the same time, F can use this effect to move closer to the randomizing prob-
ability q 5 102 which maximizes the gains from trade G. In the neighbor-
hood of the size a 5 cM 0~H 2 L!, where F maximizes the gains from trade (cf.
Corollary 1 above), a small change in a, and hence in q, has only a second-
order effect on the gains from trade, but a first-order effect on expected
costs. This reduces the equilibrium level of q to [q, below the value that
maximizes trading gains. The optimal size of a is therefore smaller than
cM 0~H 2 L!. F chooses a 5 a[ in order to commit to the profit-maximizing
incentives to monitor so that q 5 q[ in equilibrium. We call this the commit-
ment effect.
   The most important implication of Proposition 4 is that the direction of the
liquidity effect can now be determined (cf. Proposition 2): social welfare and
(ex ante) shareholder value increase in the liquidity of the stock market.
This is an implication of the free-rider problem. F anticipates that investing
larger stakes in a company commits her to costly monitoring in the future.
At the margin, this commitment is more costly than giving up the benefit
from fully exploiting the increased volatility of the stock price from more
monitoring. Hence, she invests smaller stakes in the company, which leaves
her sufficient freedom to sell and exit in the future. Proposition 2 above has
shown that this implies that F will subsequently choose to monitor more
frequently if the stock market is more liquid because she needs a source of
profits to benefit from monitoring in addition to the capital gains on her own
portfolio.18 The equilibrium randomizing probability q[ depends on the ratio
between stock market liquidity f and monitoring costs: the relevant variable
becomes the extent to which monitoring costs can be compensated through
informed trading. Propositions 2 and 4 expose the weakness of the argument

   17
      See Section III.C below for a separate discussion of the case where m violates the con-
straint stated in Proposition 4.
   18
      See the discussion of the liquidity effect above in Section III. A.
                                                                                   15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
                       Large Shareholders as Monitors                        81

that there is a trade-off between liquidity and control, requiring large share-
holders to hold sufficiently large blocks so that reducing market liquidity
would increase the lock-in effect. This argument assumes that the size of
large blocks is exogenously given. Endogenizing it leads to the conclusion
that large investors will always avoid the degree of lock-in implicitly as-
sumed by claims for a liquidity–control trade-off.
   The result in Proposition 4 is consistent with the observation that insti-
tutional investors typically hold much larger numbers of securities, and hence
smaller stakes in companies, than required in order to benefit from diversi-
fication. The analysis of this section suggests that large block investors also
limit the size of their stakes in order to maintain the liquidity of their
investments.

C. Monitoring and Voting Rights
   Proposition 3 has imposed the condition that a[ 1 f~1 2 [a! $ m, so F ’s
voting power is always sufficient to generate the higher payoff H. This sec-
tion more closely analyzes the connection between initial holdings and vot-
ing power. A problem may arise if the charter of the firm requires a very
high majority for the type of restructuring that needs to be undertaken. In
this case, the majority rule may violate the constraint a[ 1 f~1 2 [a! $ m, and
F may have to invest in a suboptimally high initial stake, since she would
otherwise be unable to monitor the firm. The majority requirement thus
imposes a lower limit on a: if the initial stake a is smaller than some ta, then
the additional purchases in the market will not enable F to monitor. How-
ever, F will only monitor if she can assure herself a non-negative profit from
doing so—that is, she will forgo the option of monitoring if G 2 qcM is not
positive for some feasible q, and hence for some a. This imposes an upper
limit on q (i.e., there will be no monitoring equilibrium where the equilib-
rium q exceeds a certain threshold level):

                                               2cM
                   G 2 qcM $ 0 m q # 1 2              .                    (15)
                                             f~H 2 L!

Because q increases in a, this condition imposes an upper limit aT on a. The
two conditions are consistent only if ta # Ta, leading to the next proposition.
PROPOSITION 5 (No Monitoring): If the majority m required for restructuring
exceeds some threshold Tm, then the conditions (A) that the large shareholder
has to buy sufficiently many shares to obtain voting control ~a 1 x B $ m! and
(B) that investing in a positive initial stake a . 0 is ex ante profitable (G 2
qcM $ 0) are mutually inconsistent. Then also, there is no equilibrium with
monitoring; the upper limit for m, Tm, is increasing in market liquidity f.
  Hence, if the majority requirement exceeds some threshold Tm, then the
required initial stake a is so large that it commits F to a monitoring prob-
ability q where she cannot profit sufficiently from trading to cover her ex-
                                                                                       15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
82                          The Journal of Finance

pected costs, and no monitoring equilibrium can exist. The more liquid the
stock market, the higher are the trading gains and the higher is the cutoff
point for this requirement. However, even if m # Tm, a stringent supermajor-
ity requirement can change the previous results.

PROPOSITION 6 (Majority Requirement): Assume the majority requirement of
the firm is stringent such that m $ om for some threshold om, but that this
requirement does not exceed mT as defined in Proposition 5. Then an equilib-
rium with monitoring exists where F chooses an initial investment a that
exceeds the stake cM 0~H 2 L! where she recovers her costs. In this case the
equilibrium probability of monitoring q decreases in market liquidity.

   If the majority requirement m lies in the interval defined in Proposition 6,
then the requirement is binding, but lies below the threshold defined in
Proposition 5 where monitoring becomes unprofitable. In this case F has to
purchase a higher initial stake a that commits her to a higher randomizing
probability q. An increase in stock market liquidity would reduce the initial
stake a that F has to buy, since she could purchase more shares in the
market later on. However, other things being equal, this reduces her incli-
nation to monitor.
   The monitoring technology used here simplifies the matter by assuming
that monitoring succeeds in improving profits with an exogenous probability.
The probability of succeeding in monitoring will, in many cases, be a func-
tion of the votes controlled by the large shareholder; however, although this
way of modeling may be more realistic, it is unlikely to change the results of
this section: what is significant is the relationship between effective moni-
toring and the size of F ’s investment. This is captured with the parameter-
ization chosen here. This and the previous subsections have analyzed the
impact of F ’s monitoring on the allocation and total welfare. The next sub-
section analyzes the problem from the point of view of shareholders.


D. What is Optimal for Shareholders?
   The total initial wealth of all shareholders initially is given by P0 , the total
value of their shares. If the firm is initially owned by households, P0 is the
value of their investment. If the firm is initially owned by an entrepreneur
who sells it in a public flotation, P0 is also the price the entrepreneur would
realize. Hence, from the point of view of initial shareholders, P0 is the ob-
jective according to which they determine the majority requirement m. The
following analysis takes the perspective of an organizational designer or found-
ing shareholder, before time 0, who chooses the majority requirement m.
Possibly, the founding shareholder can also influence market liquidity, through
the choice of the stock exchange where the shares are listed. The term “ini-
tial shareholder” in this subsection refers to this founding shareholder who
chooses these parameters before date 0. His interests will generally be dif-
ferent from those of the large blockholder or the households who acquire
                                                                                                15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
                          Large Shareholders as Monitors                                  83

shares later.19 From Proposition 4 it is clear that social welfare increases in
the liquidity of the market. However, this is not the case for initial share-
holders, thus:
PROPOSITION 7 (Shareholder Value): Initial shareholders’ wealth is not mono-
tonic in market liquidity. Shareholder value is maximized at a unique value
for market liquidity f * that is increasing in cM 0~H 2 L!.
   The important implication of Proposition 7 is that the shareholders’ objec-
tive does not coincide with social welfare. Shareholders trade on two aspects
of market liquidity. In a more liquid market, large shareholders will monitor
more and, hence, increase the ex ante value of the company. However, mar-
ket liquidity also increases the amount of informed trading and, hence, the
adverse selection discount required by uninformed shareholders. This trade-
off determines a unique degree of market liquidity, which increases with the
relative costs of monitoring. Initial shareholders can affect the trading gains
of large monitoring shareholders by requiring a more stringent majority re-
quirement for outside shareholders to exercise voting control. The following
result follows immediately from Proposition 5:
COROLLARY 2: Initial shareholders’ wealth is maximized if the corporate char-
ter specifies a majority requirement that leaves large monitoring sharehold-
ers just indifferent between monitoring the firm and not taking any action. In
this case m 5 Tm.
  Hence, initial shareholders can extract the rent of the large monitoring share-
holder by choosing a majority requirement that is (1) small enough to induce
the large shareholder to acquire a block and monitor, but (2) large enough to
reduce F ’s trading down to a level that just permits her to recover her costs,
that is, G 5 qcM . One implication of Corollary 2 and Proposition 6 is that share-
holders maximize their wealth by choosing more stringent majority require-
ments in more liquid markets. This follows because in more liquid markets the
lock-in effect is weaker, and it is easier for F to recover her monitoring costs;
hence, shareholders have to choose a more stringent majority rule in order to
extract all of F ’s rents from trading. It follows also that this higher majority
requirement improves social welfare because it increases a and therefore q. These
implications apply only if mT does not exceed the maximum stake a large in-
vestor can take. In the United States, the high majority requirement would prob-
ably exclude mutual funds from governance activities.


                         IV. Monitoring and Takeovers
  This section compares the two different forms by which a large outside
investor can intervene and restructure a company: monitoring, where a large
shareholder tries to influence the incumbent management, and hostile take-

  19
      See DeMott (1996) for a legal analysis of the conflicts of interests that arise between
different classes of shareholders if the large shareholder has the ability to monitor.
                                                                                             15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
84                            The Journal of Finance

overs, where the large shareholder tries to replace the incumbent manage-
ment. In order to place these two forms in the context of the current model,
we make the following two assumptions (the subscript M refers to monitor-
ing and the subscript T to takeovers).

ASSUMPTION 1: Takeovers and monitoring have different probabilities of suc-
cess in restructuring companies. Specifically, if F takes over the firm, she
generates the higher return H with probability sT; if she monitors the firm,
restructuring is successful with probability sM. Assume 0 # sM , sT # 1.

ASSUMPTION 2: Takeovers and monitoring have different costs, cT and cM re-
spectively, that F incurs in order to effect restructuring. The costs are in-
curred even if restructuring is unsuccessful or the bid fails. Assume

                        0 , cj , sj ~H 2 L!       j 5 M, T,                          (16)

i.e., monitoring and takeovers are both ex ante beneficial.
  Lastly, define the cost advantage of these two methods of effecting restruc-
turing by their costs relative to the success probabilities of restructuring:

CONDITION 1 (Cost Advantage): Takeovers are said to enjoy a cost advantage
over monitoring if costs and success probabilities satisfy

                                     sT   sM
                                        $    .                                       (17)
                                     cT   cM

Monitoring enjoys a cost advantage if the reverse inequality holds.
Note that no restriction is placed on parameters except (16). It would gen-
erally be plausible to assume that sT . sM , since a takeover raider can al-
ways impose changes on a target, whereas voting campaigns by large
shareholders are not always successful.20 Also, cT . cM seems a more likely
case than cT , cM , since preparing a bid involves higher costs than a public
campaign. However, no formal assumption along these lines is required here.
F can now choose between three different actions at stage 2 of the game (cf.
Figure 1):
  (A) Sell and don’t intervene;
  (B) Buy and monitor; or
  (C) Buy and attempt a takeover.
As in Section III. A, start by assuming that the initial stake a is given. We
proceed by assuming that F randomizes either between (A) and (B) with

  20
     See Gordon and Pound (1993) for evidence on governance-related proposals. They demon-
strate a large variation of voting outcomes.
                                                                                 15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
                         Large Shareholders as Monitors                    85

probability qM (called the “monitoring equilibrium”) or between (A) and (C)
with probability qT (called the “takeover equilibrium”). This assumption leads
to Proposition 8 below. We then show that the assumption of Proposition 8 is
always valid and we derive conditions where the takeover equilibrium is
preferred to the monitoring equilibrium (Proposition 9). Including the suc-
cess probabilities above the market maker’s pricing rule can now be written
as follows (remember that u [ f~1 2 a!02!!:

                P~23u! 5 L
                 P~2u! 5 qj sj H 1 ~1 2 qj sj !L
                                                        j 5 M,T.          (18)
                   P~u! 5 sj H 1 ~1 2 sj !L

  Thus, F ’s payoff from buying and selling, calculating as in equations
(2)–(4) above, is

                         f~1 2 a! qj sj ~H 2 L!
               Buy:
                            2            2
                                                             j 5 M,T.     (19)
                         f~1 2 a! ~1 2 qj !sj ~H 2 L!
               Sell:
                            2              2

  This gives total trading profits as follows:

                f~1 2 a!
                         qj ~1 2 qj !sj ~H 2 L!      j 5 M,T.             (20)
                   2

  Accordingly, the result corresponding to Proposition 1 and Proposition 4
can be stated as follows:

PROPOSITION 8 (Equilibrium with Takeovers): Assume that the large share-
holder can choose between a takeover equilibrium ~where she randomizes be-
tween selling and taking over! and a monitoring equilibrium ~where she
randomizes between selling and monitoring!. Then she buys a shares of the
firm initially, and her probability of intervention is

                              1        cj
                       qj 5     2                 j 5 M,T,                (21)
                              2   fsj ~H 2 L!

depending on her choice of takeover or monitoring.
  The proposition assumes that F makes an ex ante decision about whether
to restructure by takeover or by monitoring if she decides to restructure, and
that she subsequently randomizes between selling and buying0restructuring.
                                                                                   15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
86                           The Journal of Finance

This assumes that all other possible strategies (e.g., sell and take over) are
dominated and never chosen in equilibrium. This is almost always true.

PROPOSITION 9 (Takeover vs. Monitoring): F randomizes either between sell-
ing and taking over or between selling and monitoring. Independent of the
pricing rule of the market maker, F prefers takeovers to monitoring if and
only if


             cT 2 cM #   F   f~1 2 a!
                                2          G
                                      1 a @~sT 2 sM !~H 2 L!#.             (22)


Except for those parameters for which the condition holds as an equality, F
never randomizes between taking over and monitoring.
  From Proposition 9 it is legitimate to compare a “takeover equilibrium,”
where F randomizes between selling and taking over, and a “monitoring
equilibrium,” where she randomizes between monitoring and selling. Prop-
osition 9 validates the assumption of Proposition 8. The first term in brack-
ets in (22) is the stake F holds after purchasing additional shares in the
market, and the second expression in brackets represents the additional cap-
ital gain per share through taking over relative to monitoring. Hence, the
right-hand side of the equation represents the portion of the incremental
capital gain from taking over after additional purchases in the market. The
left-hand side of the inequality represents the additional costs of taking over.
Hence, the condition simply requires that the relevant comparison of the
costs and benefits of takeover versus monitoring refers to the post-purchase
stake. This finding is different from the analysis in Section III (cf. equation
(10)), where the relevant condition was always expressed in terms of the
shares F holds before any additional purchases in the market.
  In order to determine which equilibrium F prefers ex ante, we have to
calculate the net benefits of these two equilibria. From Proposition 3 above,
we need to calculate G 2 qc, where q is given by equation (21), and then to
calculate whether it is higher for monitoring or for takeovers. This leads to

LEMMA 2: F prefers the takeover to the monitoring equilibrium if and only if

                      sM
                      sT
                         $     S   fsM ~H 2 L! 2 2cM
                                   fsT ~H 2 L! 2 2cT
                                                       D
                                                       2
                                                           .               (23)


  Lemma 2 gives an implicit condition for the ranking of monitoring and
takeover equilibria from F ’s point of view. Lemma 2 can now be used to-
gether with Proposition 8 to establish the main result of this section.

PROPOSITION 10 (Comparative Statics): If takeovers enjoy a relative cost ad-
vantage over monitoring such that Condition 1 (equation (17)) holds, then
                                                                                     15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
                       Large Shareholders as Monitors                          87

    (i) The optimally chosen randomizing probability in the takeover equilib-
        rium is higher: q[ T . q[ M ;
   (ii) A higher liquidity of the stock market f makes it less likely that F
        prefers the takeover equilibrium over the monitoring equilibrium;
  (iii) Shareholder wealth is maximized for a value f * of market liquidity,
        which is lower in the takeover equilibrium than in the monitoring
        equilibrium.

   The first two results follow directly from the discussion in Section III. The
choice of the randomizing probability q to which F commits in equilibrium
depends on the trade-off between maximal uncertainty over the firm’s pay-
offs (to increase trading profits) and the costs of monitoring she has to incur.
From equation (21) above, we can see that trading profits and uncertainty
are directly proportional to the success probability of monitoring sj . How-
ever, a higher success rate is bought by higher costs, and it is only if one
element outweighs the other that q increases.
   Market liquidity affects the trade-off between takeover and monitoring be-
cause it determines to what extent the associated costs can be passed on to
uninformed investors. In an illiquid market, cost advantages of one restruc-
turing method over another are therefore important, as only a small portion
of the costs can be recovered through informed trading. However, in a more
liquid market the benefit of this cost advantage is eroded. If takeovers enjoy a
cost advantage over monitoring in the sense of Condition 1 (see equation (17)),
then this advantage will be worth more in an illiquid than in a liquid market.
Hence, other things being equal, if F prefers takeovers to monitoring in an
illiquid market because of their relative cost advantage, she may likewise
prefer monitoring in a more liquid market where this advantage is less important
and the surplus generated by each method, measured by s j ~H 2 L! 2 c j ,
becomes more relevant. As a corollary of Proposition 7, the optimal liquidity
from the point of view of shareholders is now lower, since the trade-off
between more interventions (inversely related to costs) and higher losses
from adverse selection is biased toward lower costs, if takeovers enjoy a cost
advantage.

                             V. Empirical Issues
   One focus of recent empirical research is the question whether sharehol-
der activism leads, on average, to better performance of the companies, as
well as of the portfolios of activist shareholders. So far, no clear conclusion to
this question has been reached. Whereas Nesbitt (1994) and Smith (1996)
find that CalPERS was successful in its performance targeting after 1990,
other studies on a larger sample of pension funds are more skeptical. Gillan
and Starks (1995) find that there is a significant wealth gain from institu-
tional monitoring in the short term that is not sustained in the long term.
Similarly, Wahal (1996) finds that performance-based targeting leads to sig-
                                                                                              15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
88                             The Journal of Finance

nificant wealth effects, but he did not find evidence for long-term improve-
ments. Unfortunately, none of the empirical studies relates the wealth ef-
fects to the effectiveness of institutions for changing voting outcomes. The
results of Gordon and Pound (1993) suggest that a significant proportion of
shareholder proposals fail, so that a potential problem may be for sharehold-
ers to influence voting outcomes and coordinate with other shareholders.
Leleux, Vermaelen, and Banerjee (1995) analyze the impact of large block-
holders on firm performance in France and find that the identity of the
blockholder is crucial: whereas holding companies’ acquisitions of large stakes
do not generate significant abnormal returns, other acquirers are able to
create significant shareholder wealth.21 Brickley, Lease, and Smith’s (1988)
study of anti-takeover amendments finds that independent institutions are
actually more likely to oppose charter amendments. These findings show
that the characteristics of the large shareholders, whether they are private
individuals or institutions, and their organizational structure are potentially
important aspects for the success of monitoring activities.


                                   VI. Conclusion
  This paper has studied a model of intervention by large investors who
follow two investment objectives: (i) monitoring a company in order to ben-
efit from the capital gain on their shares, and (ii) trading on private infor-
mation in public markets. The main results are:
  • Expected improvements in the profits of the monitored firm are always
    incorporated in the share price. This result is a manifestation of the
    free-rider problem for all gains are shared with non-monitoring share-
    holders. The only source of profits from monitoring for the large inves-
    tor comes from the uncertainty she creates over final payoffs. She benefits
    from increasing volatility, not from increasing the mean of the compa-
    ny’s returns.
  • The large shareholder realizes a capital gain from monitoring, but she
    limits her initial stake in the company so that the capital gain on this
    stake is always insufficient to cover her monitoring costs.
  • If stock markets are less liquid, large shareholders will engage in less
    monitoring. In order to avoid the commitment to monitor, they will hold
    more diversified portfolios; that is, they will have smaller stakes in more
    companies.
  • A more liquid stock market leads to more monitoring because it allows
    the investor to cover monitoring costs through informed trading.
  • The founders of the company can affect the likelihood of future moni-
    toring by large shareholders through increasing majority requirements,

  21
     Majumdar and Nagarajan (1994) analyze asset-allocation decisions and refute the notion
that institutional investors are myopic.
                                                                                   15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
                       Large Shareholders as Monitors                        89

    provided the required stake needed by the large shareholder does not
    exceed a certain threshold. This requirement extracts rents from poten-
    tial monitors, providing that large shareholders are allowed to hold a
    sufficient number of shares.
  • When the large investor can choose between takeovers and monitoring
    as different forms of intervention in underperforming companies, then
    she will prefer the less costly method if the stock market is illiquid and
    the more effective method if the stock market is liquid.

  Summarizing, it follows that a liquid stock market improves the likelihood
of successful corporate restructuring in two ways:

   (i) Liquid stock markets allow large investors to benefit from monitoring
       through informed trading and help to overcome the free-rider problem.
  (ii) The more liquid the market, the more likely that a restructuring method
       will be preferred for its effectiveness rather than for its low costs.

  This paper therefore concludes that liquid stock markets, far from being a
hindrance to corporate control, tend to support effective corporate gover-
nance. The analysis has also shown that the large shareholder will generally
extract a rent from the possibility to monitor the firm. Shareholders can
reduce or even eliminate this rent if they require higher majorities in voting
contests, forcing the large shareholder to invest in larger stakes, which are
then less liquid. This is a more efficient way of locking the large shareholder
into her stake than reducing the liquidity of the market. Reduced liquidity
aggravates the free-rider problem, but it does not eliminate the rents of the
large shareholder. However, a larger majority requirement induces the large
shareholder to increase her initial holding, and this reduces her rents and
increases her inclination to monitor.
  One limitation of the model here is that it focuses on the decision-
making of one large investor. The paper cannot therefore analyze how sev-
eral different initial shareholders free ride on each other’s monitoring
activities. In most cases, large shareholders cooperate in order to influence
the management of a company. Analyzing the incentives of large sharehold-
ers to cooperate would be important, not the least in order to inform the
views of regulators who set the rules for large shareholders to coordinate
their actions, generally at the exclusion of smaller shareholders. A second
aspect that has been set aside in this paper concerns the company’s inter-
nal organization and the incentives of the large shareholders themselves.
The empirical literature (see Section V above) suggests that there are im-
portant differences between individuals and institutions. This is most prob-
ably because large institutions are themselves subject to conflicts of interests
between the owners or beneficiaries and the managers who exercise con-
trol. These issues are beyond the scope of this paper and left for future
research.
                                                                                                   15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
90                                   The Journal of Finance

                                            Appendix A
  This appendix discusses the possibility of F choosing the amounts bought and
sold asymmetrically, i.e., arbitrary x B and x S 5 f~1 2 a! (cf. equation (1)).

Order Flow                       Transactions                  Probability             Price
xB                      F buys x B                             q02                 H
                        HH sell 0
x B 2 ~1 2 a!f          (i) F buys x B                         (i) q02             qH 1 ~1 2 q!L
                            HH sell ~1 2 a!f
                        (ii) F buys x S 5 x B 2 ~1 2 a!f       (ii) ~1 2 q!02
                             HH sell 0
x B 2 2~1 2 a!f         F buys x B 2 ~1 2 a!f                  ~1 2 q!02           L
                        HH sell ~1 2 a!f


     Then the expected payoff from buying and monitoring is


         x B @H 2 E~P1 6B!# 2 cM 1 aH 5 x B        S   12q
                                                        2
                                                           D
                                                           ~H 2 L! 2 cM 1 aH.              (A1)

The expected payoff from selling is calculated analogously as


     F
xS L 2
            L 1 qH 1 ~1 2 q!L
                   2                  G   1 aL 5 ~~1 2 a!f 2 x B !
                                                                         q
                                                                         2
                                                                           ~H 2 L! 1 aL.   (A2)

Then expected trading profits can be calculated as

                    12q                                      q
                 qx B      ~H 2 L! 1 ~1 2 q!~~1 2 a!f 2 x B ! ~H 2 L!
                       2                                     2
                              q~1 2 q!
                   5 ~1 2 a!f          ~H 2 L! [ ~1 2 a!G,                                 (A3)
                                 2

where G is defined as in (6). Note that this expression is equivalent to the
expression (6) obtained in Section III. A, so that the restriction on x B does
not change the result on trading gains. Also, because the adverse selection
discount on the share is equal to the trading gains per share, the total payoff
is still given by (14). Now q has to satisfy the indifference condition:

             12q                                       q
          xB      ~H 2 L! 1 aH 2 cM 5 ~~1 2 a!f 2 x B ! ~H 2 L! 1 aL
               2                                       2
          xB                                   q
             ~H 2 L! 1 a~H 2 L! 2 cM 5 f~1 2 a! ~H 2 L!
          2                                    2
                            a~H 2 L! 2 cM        xB
                   mq5                      1           .                                  (A4)
                          f~1 2 a!~H 2 L!02   f~1 2 a!
                                                                                        15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
                      Large Shareholders as Monitors                              91

Because the payoff is still equal to G 2 qcM , the optimal value for q is
given by (17). Then, for any given x B , the equilibrium value of the initial
stake a is

                              2cM
                                  2 xB 1 f
                             H2L
                          a5               .                                     (A5)
                                     2cM
                             f142
                                   H2L

As a result, the optimal value of q chosen by F can be implemented with a
continuum of combinations of a and x B , so that any combination which sat-
isfies (A5) is optimal. The voting constraint is now as follows:

                                 a[ 1 x B $ m.                                   (A6)

 Proceeding analogously to Proposition 4, we require that G 2 qcM $ 0,
which is equivalent to

                                        cM
                          q#12                  .                                (A7)
                                     f~H 2 L!02

Inserting q from (A4) and rearranging gives the following:



         f 2 xB
                                                         S
                                                 f 1 xB f 1 1 2
                                                                   2cM
                                                                  H2L
                                                                         D
    a#            [ aT n a 1 x B #                                           .   (A8)
              2cM                                             2cM
       f122                                             f122
             H2L                                             H2L

  Now aT is a function of x B , so the expression a 1 x B needs to be evaluated
as a sum rather than by individual components. Observe that 0 # x B #
f~1 2 a!. The highest majority requirement m that is consistent with non-
negative profits for F is the highest value that the right-hand side of (A8)
can attain while still satisfying (A7) with q determined by (A4). The right-
hand side of (A8) is maximized either at x B 5 0 or at x B 5 f~1 2 a!, de-
pending on whether (A8) is increasing or decreasing in x B . If x B 5 0, the
highest value for x B 1 a is simply a, and the highest value for a consistent
with (A7) is determined from (A8); hence,

                                        f
                          mT 5                      .                            (A9)
                                       2cM
                                 f122
                                      H2L
                                                                                 15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
92                         The Journal of Finance

If the right-hand side of (A8) is increasing in x B , it is maximized at a 5 0
and x B 5 f; hence, mT 5 f. Therefore,




                                  3                  4
                                           f
                     mT 5 Max                      ,f ,                 (A10)
                                            2cM
                                      f122
                                           H2L


which is slightly larger than the expression for the symmetric case (19), but
qualitatively equivalent.


                                      Appendix B

 Proof of Proposition 3: Because H 2 L . cM , the social optimum is achieved
whenever q 5 1. From (9) this requires that:

                    1   2~a~H 2 L! 2 cM !
                      1                   m a $ a *,                     (B1)
                    2   f~1 2 a!~H 2 L!

where

                                   cM     f
                                        1
                                 H  2 L   4
                            a* [            .                            (B2)
                                        f
                                    11
                                        4

Q.E.D.

  Proof of Proposition 4: F chooses a to pick the randomizing probability q
that maximizes

                         f
                           q~1 2 q!~H 2 L! 2 qcM ,                       (B3)
                         2

which gives immediately [q. Then from (9) and (17) a needs to satisfy

            1   2~cM 2 a~H 2 L!!  1     cM
              2                  5 2          m a 5 [a,                  (B4)
            2   f~1 2 a!~H 2 L!   2  f~H 2 L!

with a[ given in (14).   Q.E.D.
                                                                                     15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
                       Large Shareholders as Monitors                          93

  Proof of Proposition 5: Equation (15) before the proposition follows from

                                      G 2 qcM $ 0
                              f
                          m     q~1 2 q!~H 2 L! $ qcM
                              2
                                            cM
                          m12q$
                                         f~H 2 L!02
                                           2cM
                          mq#12                   .                           (B5)
                                         f~H 2 L!

From (6), the last condition is equivalent to

                                   f
                       a#                     [ Ta.                           (B6)
                               4~H 2 L 2 cM !
                            f1
                                   H2L

Hence, G 2 qcM $ 0 requires a # Ta. Conversely, a 1 x B $ m requires


        a1
             f
             2
                        f
               ~1 2 a! 5 1 a 1 2
                        2
                                 f
                                 2
                                  S         D   $mma$
                                                             m 2 f02
                                                             1 2 f02
                                                                     [ ua.    (B7)


Both conditions are consistent only if ua # Ta, i.e., if m satisfies


                                                    S
                                                  f 12
                                                         f
                                                             D
          m#
               f
               2
                      S
                 1 aT 1 2
                          f
                          2
                              D   5
                                      f
                                      2
                                        1
                                            f1
                                                         2
                                               4~H 2 L 2 cM !
                                                                   [ Tm.      (B8)

                                                   H2L

Because

                    ?mT
                    ?f
                         1
                        5 ~1 2 Ta! 1 1 2
                         2
                                            S
                                         f ?aT
                                         2 ?f
                                               .0    D                        (B9)


and ] Ta0?f . 0, mT is increasing in f.         Q.E.D.
  Proof of Proposition 6: From Proposition 2 and equation (10), the sign of
the liquidity effect is reversed if a . ~cM 0~H 2 L!!. However, a $ ua n a .
cM 0~H 2 L! if and only if

                              m 2 f02    cM
                                      .     ,                                (B10)
                              1 2 f02   H2L
                                                                                      15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
94                           The Journal of Finance

which is equivalent to

                                              cM
                          m $ f 1 ~1 2 f!        [ om.                        (B11)
                                             H2L

Q.E.D.
  Proof of Proposition 7: Substituting (11) into (14) gives

                      H1L   cM   f~H 2 L!       2
                                               cM
               P0 5       2    2          1           .                       (B12)
                       2     f      8       2f~H 2 L!

This function is concave in f, and the unique value for f where P0 is max-
imized is given by


                          f *2 5
                                    4cM
                                   H2L
                                         S
                                        22
                                            cM
                                           H2L
                                               .      D                       (B13)


Q.E.D.
  Proof of Proposition 9: The pricing rule of the market maker can be writ-
ten as

                              P~u! 5 sj H 1 ~1 2 sj !L

                            P~2u! 5 qj sj H 1 ~1 2 qj sj !L

                           P~23u! 5 L.                                        (B14)

  F has six pure strategies from all combinations of possible restructuring
actions she can take (monitoring, takeover, or no intervention) combined
with either buying or selling. It is sufficient to show that (i) any method of
restructuring (monitoring or takeover) combined with buying dominates re-
structuring with selling; (ii) no intervention combined with selling domi-
nates no intervention combined with buying; and (iii) if the market anticipates
that F will take over subsequent to buying, she has no incentive to deviate
to monitoring (and vice versa). Statement (i) requires that

     f~1 2 a!
        2
              S
              sj H 1 ~1 2 sj !L 2
                                  P~u! 1 P~2u!
                                        2
                                                  D   1 a~sj H 1 ~1 2 sj !L! 2 cj


      $2
           f~1 2 a!
              2
                      S
                    sj H 1 ~1 2 sj !L 2
                                        P~u! 1 P~2u!
                                              2
                                                          D
         1 a~sj H 1 ~1 2 sj !L! 2 cj .                                        (B15)
                                                                                       15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
                          Large Shareholders as Monitors                          95

  Using the definition of P~u! above, this can be rewritten as

          P~u! 2 P~2u!   P~u! 2 P~2u!   P~u! 2 P~23u!
                       1              1               . 0,                     (B16)
                2              2              2

and the claim follows. Similarly, (ii) requires

              f~1 2 a!
                 2
                       L2 S
                          P~u! 1 P~2u!
                                2
                                                D   1 aL


               $2
                    f~1 2 a!
                       2
                             L2 S
                                P~2u! 1 P~23u!
                                       2
                                                               D   1 aL;       (B17)


and because P~23u! 5 L, the conclusion follows. Lastly, (iii) requires that if
the market expects F to monitor subsequent to buying, then she has no
incentive to deviate to takeover:

 f~1 2 a!
    2
          S
          sM H 1 ~1 2 sM !L 2
                              P~u! 1 P~2u!
                                    2
                                                     D   1 a~sM H 1 ~1 2 sM !L! 2 cM


  $
      f~1 2 a!
         2
               S
               sT H 1 ~1 2 sT !L 2
                                   P~u! 1 P~2u!
                                         2
                                                           D
      1 a~sT H 1 ~1 2 sT !L! 2 cT .                                            (B18)

   This is equivalent to equation (23). It is easy to see that if F randomizes
between selling and buying0takeover, then she must prefer takeover to mon-
itoring, and the reverse condition of (23) must be true. Hence, F would ran-
domize between all three alternatives only if (23) were satisfied as an
equality. Q.E.D.

  Proof of Lemma 2: The net gains from takeovers or monitoring are

                          f
           Gj 2 qj cj 1     q ~1 2 qj !sj ~H 2 L! 2 qj cj           j 5 M,T.   (B19)
                          2 j

Using (21) for qj and rearranging gives that

                                     ~fsj ~H 2 L! 2 2cj ! 2
                     Gj 2 qj cj 5                           .                  (B20)
                                         8fsj ~H 2 L!

Comparing GT 2 qT cT and GM 2 qM cM gives (23).                    Q.E.D.
                                                                                                 15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
96                              The Journal of Finance

  Proof of Proposition 10:
     (i) This follows directly, using (21):

                  1        cT      1       cM       sT   sM
                    2             . 2             m    .    .                          (B21)
                  2   fsM ~H 2 L!  2  fsM ~H 2 L!   cT   cM

     (ii) Taking square roots on both sides of (23) and then the derivative of
          the right-hand side gives



             ? fsM ~H 2 L! 2 2cM
                                            2~H 2 L! sT
                                              cT cM  cT
                                                       S2
                                                          sM
                                                          cM  sT
                                                                   D
                                                                   sM
                                 5                        .0m    .    ,
            ?f fsT ~H 2 L! 2 2cT   ~fsT ~H 2 L! 2 2cT ! 2     cT   cM

                                                                                       (B22)

        which proves the last result.
  (iii) This follows directly, using the same procedure as in Proposition 6,
        which gives the optimal value for f as


                            f2j 5
                                        4cj
                                    sj ~H 2 L!
                                               S
                                               22
                                                       cj
                                                  sj ~H 2 L!
                                                             .    D                    (B23)


        This implies immediately that




                                                       D1                  2
                                                               cT   cM
                                                                  1
                   f*2   *2
                    T 2 fM 5
                                      4
                                           S
                                          cT
                                    H 2 L sT
                                             2
                                               cM
                                               sM
                                                            22
                                                               sT
                                                                H2L
                                                                    sM
                                                                       .               (B24)


           By assumption sj ~H 2 L! . cj j 5 T, M, therefore the second bracket
        is always positive. The second bracket is negative if and only if Con-
        dition 1 (equation (17)) holds, hence the conclusion follows. Q.E.D.

                                     REFERENCES
Admati, Anat R., and Paul Pfleiderer, 1988, A theory of intraday patterns: Volume and price
    variability, Review of Financial Studies 1, 3–40.
Admati, Anat R., Paul Pfleiderer, and Josef Zechner, 1994, Large shareholder activism, risk
    sharing, and financial market equilibrium, Journal of Political Economy 102, 1097–1130.
Bernhardt, Dan, Burton Hollifield, and Eric Hughson, 1995, Investment and insider trading,
    Review of Financial Studies 8, 501–543.
Bhide, Amar, 1993, The hidden costs of stock market liquidity, Journal of Financial Economics
    34, 31–51.
Black, Bernard S., 1992a, Agents watching agents: The promise of institutional investor voice,
    UCLA Law Review 39, 811–892.
Black, Bernard S., 1992b, The value of institutional investor monitoring: The empirical evi-
    dence, UCLA Law Review 39, 895–939.
                                                                                                    15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
                           Large Shareholders as Monitors                                    97

Black, Bernard S., and John C. Coffee, 1994, Hail Britannia?: Institutional investor behavior
    under limited regulation, Michigan Law Review 92, 1997–2087.
Bolton, Patrick, and Ernst-Ludwig von Thadden, 1998, Blocks, liquidity, and corporate control,
    Journal of Finance 53, 1–25.
Brickley, J. A., R. C. Lease, and C. W. Smith, Jr., 1988, Ownership structure and voting on
    antitakeover amendments, Journal of Financial Economics 20, 267–291.
Burkart, Mike, Denis Gromb, and Fausto Panunzi, 1994, Large shareholders, monitoring, and
    fiduciary duty, Working paper, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Stockholm School
    of Economics.
Charkham, Jonathan, 1994, Keeping good company: A study of corporate governance in five
    countries (Clarendon Press, Oxford).
Coffee, John C., 1991, Liquidity versus control: The institutional investor as corporate monitor,
    Columbia Law Review 91, 1277–1368.
DeMott, Deborah A., 1996, Agency principles and large block shareholders, mimeo, Duke Uni-
    versity Law School.
Dewatripont, Mathias, 1993, The “leading shareholder” strategy, takeover contests and stock
    price dynamics, European Economic Review 37, 983–1004.
Dow, James, and Gary Gorton, 1997, Noise trading, delegated portfolio management, and eco-
    nomic welfare, Journal of Political Economy 105, 1024–1050.
Fudenberg, Drew, and Jean Tirole, 1991, Game theory (MIT Press, London and Cambridge).
Gillan, Stuart L., and Laura T. Starks, 1995, Relationship investing and shareholder activism
    by institutional investors, Working paper, University of Texas at Austin.
Glosten, Lawrence R., and Paul R. Milgrom, 1985, Bid, ask and transaction prices in a special-
    ist market with heterogeneously informed traders, Journal of Financial Economics 13, 71–
    100.
Gordon, Jeffrey N., 1991, Shareholder initiative: A social choice and game theoretic approach to
    corporate law, Cincinnati Law Review 60, 347–385.
Gordon, Lilli A., and John Pound, 1993, Information, ownership structure, and shareholder
    voting: Evidence from shareholder-sponsored corporate governance proposals, Journal of
    Finance 48, 697–718.
Grundfest, Joseph A., 1993, Just vote no: Minimalist strategies for dealing with barbarians
    inside the gate, Stanford Law Review 45, 857–937.
Holmström, Bengt, and Jean Tirole, 1993, Market liquidity and performance monitoring, Jour-
    nal of Political Economy 101, 678–709.
Huddart, Steven, 1993, The effect of a large shareholder on corporate value, Management Sci-
    ence 39, 1407–1421.
Kahn, Charles, and Andrew Winton, 1995, Ownership structure, speculation, and shareholder
    intervention, Working paper, Northwestern University.
Khanna, Naveen, Steve L. Slezak, and Michael Bradley, 1994, Insider trading, outside search,
    and resource allocation: Why firms and society may disagree on insider trading restrictions,
    Review of Financial Studies 7, 575–608.
Krishnan, Murugappa, 1992, An equivalence between the Kyle (1985) and the Glosten-Milgrom
    (1985) models, Economic Letters 40, 333–338.
Kyle, Albert S., 1985, Continuous auctions and insider trading, Econometrica 53, 1315–1335.
Kyle, Albert S., and Jean-Luc Vila, 1991, Noise trading and takeovers, Rand Journal of Eco-
    nomics 22, 54–71.
Leleux, Benoit, Theo Vermaelen, and Saugata Banerjee, 1995, Large shareholdings and corpo-
    rate control: An analysis of stake purchases by French holding companies, Working paper,
    INSEAD.
Majumdar, Sumit K., and Anuradha Nagarajan, 1994, The long-term orientation of institutional
    investors: An empirical investigation, Working paper, University of Michigan.
Nesbitt, Stephen L., 1994, Long-term rewards from shareholder activism: A study of the
    “CalPERS Effect,” Journal of Applied Corporate Finance 6, 75–80.
Shleifer, Andrei, and Robert W. Vishny, 1986, Large shareholders and corporate control, Journal
    of Political Economy 94, 176–216.
                                                                                                15406261, 1998, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/0022-1082.35053 by University College London UCL Library Services, Wiley Online Library on [18/08/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License
98                             The Journal of Finance

Smith, Michael P., 1996, Shareholder activism by institutional investors: Evidence from
    CalPERS, Journal of Finance 51, 227–252.
Stoughton, Neal M., and Josef Zechner, 1998, IPO-mechanisms, monitoring and ownership struc-
    ture, Journal of Financial Economics, forthcoming.
Wahal, Sunil, 1996, Pension fund activism and firm performance, Journal of Financial and
    Quantitative Analysis 31, 1–23.
Zwiebel, Jeffrey, 1995, Block investment and partial benefits of corporate control, Review of
    Economic Studies 62, 161–185.
