=== PAGE 1 ===
 
Working Paper  
No. 1/2014 
  
April 2014 
Liquidity and Shareholder Activism 
Øyvind Norli, Charlotte Østergaard and Ibolya 
Schindele 
© Øyvind Norli, Charlotte Østergaard and Ibo lya Schindele 2014. All rights reserved. Short sections of 
text, not to exceed two paragraphs, may be quoted without explicit permission, provided that full credit, 
including © notice, is given to the source. This paper can be downloaded without charge from t he CCGR 
website http://www.bi.edu/ccgr 

=== PAGE 2 ===
Liquidity and Shareholder Activism
Øyvind Norli, Charlotte Ostergaard, and Ibolya Schindele∗
April 2014
Abstract
Blockholders’ incentives to intervene in corporate governance are weakened by free-rider prob-
lems and high costs of activism. Theory suggests activists may recoup expenses through in-
formed trading of target ﬁrms’ stock when stocks are liquid. We show that stock liquidity
increases the probability of activism, but less so for potentially overvalued ﬁrms where privately
informed blockholders may have greater incentives to sell their stake than to intervene. We also
document that activists accumulate more stocks in targets the more liquid is the stock. We con-
clude that liquidity helps overcome the free-rider problem and induces activism via pre-activism
accumulation of target ﬁrms’ shares.
JEL classiﬁcation: G14, G34
Keywords: Shareholder Activism, Stock Liquidity, Informed Trading, Proxy Fight.
∗All authors are from BI Norwegian Business School, Nydalsveien 37, 0442 Oslo, Norway. Øyvind Norli can
be reached at +47 4641 0514 and oyvind.norli@bi.no, Charlotte Ostergaard can be reached at +47 4641 0520 and
charlotte.ostergaard@bi.no, and Ibolya Schindele can be reached at +47 4641 0517 and ibolya.schindele@bi.no. We
are grateful to “The Center for Corporate Governance Research (CCGR)” at the Norwegian School of Management for
ﬁnancial support and to Øyvind Bøhren, Alex Edmans, Daniel Ferreira, Bruno Gerard, Erik Lie, Ernst Maug, Richard
Priestley, Johannes Skjeltorp, David Stolin and seminar participants at Tel Aviv University, two CCGR workshops,
the 2009 European Finance Association Meeting, the 2009 Corporate Governance Conference at Toulouse Business
School, and Hanken School of Economics and Helsinki School of Economics Joint Finance Research Seminars for
helpful comments. Alexandra Coiculescu and Ignacio Garcia de Olalla Lopez provided excellent research assistance.
Part of this research was done while Øyvind Norli was visiting Tuck School of Business, Dartmouth College.

=== PAGE 3 ===
1 Introduction
Through their voting rights, shareholders have the formal power to aﬀect the governance of public
companies. But shareholder activism is a rare event, a fact often attributed to its considerable
costs.1 Election contests demonstrate how costs can be substantial. A shareholder seeking to replace
existing board members in a proxy contest must run a public campaign, hire legal expertise, and
pay for producing and distributing his own slate of directors to the company’s other shareholders. 2
Even if the overall value added exceeds the costs, a large shareholder’s incentives to monitor and
intervene are hampered by free-riding minority shareholders who reap the beneﬁt of increased value,
but do not bear any of the costs.
Theory suggests that liquidity may help to overcome the free-rider problem and strengthen
the incentive of large shareholders to engage in costly activism (voice). If a ﬁrm’s stock is liquid
enough, a shareholder planning an intervention can proﬁt from informed trading and recoup the cost
of activism by purchasing shares at a price that does not yet reﬂect the future increase in company
value created by his privately known actions (Maug, 1998; Kahn and Winton, 1998; Winton and Li,
2006).3 In contrast, Coﬀee (1991) and Bhide (1993) view liquidity as an impediment to intervention
because it allows blockholders to sell their shares without incurring large trading costs. Liquidity,
in this case, makes exit more attractive than voice.
In this paper, we investigate empirically whether liquidity induces shareholder activism in the
form of voice through informed trading as proposed by Maug (1998), Kahn and Winton (1998),
and Winton and Li (2006). For brevity, henceforth we will refer to this hypothesis as “voice”
or “the voice mechanism”. The mechanism of voice rests on the assumption that voice is costly.
We therefore hand-collect data on contested proxy solicitations in connection with shareholder
meetings. These are activist events that involve considerable costs as documented by Gantchev
(2013).
1See e.g. the evidence provided in Gillan and Starks (1998), Karpoﬀ (2001), and Bebchuck (2007).
2The biggest European pension funds have been lobbying for proxy access in U.S. companies and have pointed to
the high costs of nominating individuals for election to the board as a factor behind their growing focus on non-U.S.
stocks, cf. “Plea for democracy in corporations”, The Financial Times , January 22, 2007.
3Faure-Grimaud and Gromb (2004) propose that liquidity may mitigate the blockholder’s free-rider problem and
provide incentives for voice through improved price informativeness.
1

=== PAGE 4 ===
Our analysis is based on a sample of ﬁrms listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the
American Stock Exchange (AMEX), and Nasdaq. Activist events are collected from the Electronic
Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval system (EDGAR) of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC). We record information from all ﬁlings made by non-management and ﬁlings
relating to contested proxy solicitations during the years 1994 through 2007. We identify 385
shareholder activist events, for which the majority (87 percent) are ﬁlings concerning proxy contests
and the rest are related to shareholder proposals or other types of disputes.
We start by documenting that at the time their intervention becomes publicly known, activists
own sizeable blocks of equity in the target ﬁrms, on average 9%. Activist shareholders therefore
tend to be blockholders and the free-rider problem is likely to be relevant in our sample, leaving a
role for liquidity. Our paper contributes by providing four pieces of evidence on the role of liquidity
that all are consistent with the mechanism in the theories of Maug (1998), Kahn and Winton
(1998), and Winton and Li (2006).
First, we investigate the eﬀect of liquidity on the likelihood of shareholder activism. We run
probit regressions and ﬁnd a statistically and economically signiﬁcant positive eﬀect of stock liquid-
ity on the probability of activism. The results imply that a discrete increase in liquidity from the
10th to the 90th percentile more than doubles the likelihood of activism. Importantly, the positive
eﬀect of liquidity that we estimate is purely driven by cross-sectional diﬀerences in liquidity since
we carefully control for its time-variation in our regression speciﬁcations. In addition, we show that
our results are robust to various ways of handling the potential endogeneity of liquidity, including
instrumental variable regressions.
Second, Kahn and Winton (1998) and Winton and Li (2006) point out that private information
sometimes gives incentives for exit rather than voice: When a blockholder privately observes a
managerial problem and the stock is overvalued, his proﬁt may be higher if he sells his stake
rather than intervenes to improve ﬁrm value. The higher liquidity, the stronger is the incentive
for blockholders to unwind their positions. To test this hypothesis, we interact liquidity with a
proxy for overvaluation. For ﬁrms with a high probability of being overvalued, high liquidity will
be associated with a higher prevalence of exit than for the average ﬁrm and the eﬀect of liquidity
2

=== PAGE 5 ===
on activism should be diminished. Our estimates show that the eﬀect on activism of a discrete
increase in liquidity from the 10th to the 90th percentile is around 50% lower for the decile of ﬁrms
most likely to be overvalued compared to the decile of ﬁrms least likely to be overvalued.
Third, we directly examine shareholder activists’ pre-event trading of target ﬁrms’ stocks. We
hand-collect transactions data from activists’ 13D ﬁlings made with the SEC and record transactions
up to one year prior to the announcement date of activism. Our evidence shows that activists trade
extensively prior to activism: 76% of activists trade and almost all trades (95%) are purchases. On
average, activists that trade accumulate 54% of their stock holdings during the 12 months period
prior to the announcement day. The trading proﬁts earned are substantial, on average, activists
earn a return of 8.5% on the capital invested.
Finally, we document a link between the liquidity of a stock and the extent of activists’ trading.
Because the ability to trade without aﬀecting the price is the source of the activists’ trading
proﬁts, the voice mechanism implies that activists will accumulate more shares the more liquid is
the target ﬁrm’s stock. This is exactly what we ﬁnd. Regressing the fraction of the target ﬁrm’s
shares acquired by activists on liquidity and control variables, we show that liquidity has a direct
positive eﬀect on the pre-event accumulation of target stocks.
Overall, our results suggest that informed trading is a substantive driver behind the positive
eﬀect of liquidity on activism. The ability to trade in target ﬁrms’ stocks appears to be an integral
part of many shareholders’ intervention strategies and our results highlight the importance of being
able to recoup the costs of activism in order for intervention to be worthwhile. The SEC has not
succeeded in its recent attempts to provide shareholders easier access to proxy solicitations of their
alternative plans for a company such as nominating directors. 4 This suggests that stock liquidity
will continue to be a determining factor of activism and that shareholders of less liquid ﬁrms may
be hesitant to intervene in governance because of their inability to reclaim their outlays.
4The SEC proposal of a new rule, Rule 14a-11, allowing shareholders to use company management proxy statement
to nominate directors and solicit votes for their election (under certain conditions), was vacated by the U.S. Court
of Appeals for D.C. in July 2011.
3

=== PAGE 6 ===
2 Relation to existing literature
Liquidity may aﬀect corporate governance through several channels. The theories discussed in the
previous section focus on how liquidity and informed trading aﬀect blockholders’ incentives for
voice. A recent group of theories have pointed to the threat of exit as an alternative mechanism
through which liquidity may aﬀect governance (Edmans, 2009; Admati and Pﬂeiderer, 2009; Ed-
mans and Manso, 2011). When managerial compensation is tied to the stock price, the threat that
informed blockholders may sell their shares and exit improves managerial incentives. Because the
threat is more credible when the cost of selling shares is lower, liquidity enhances the credibility
of exit threat. Edmans, Fang, and Zur (2013) and Bharath, Jayaraman, and Nagar (2013) study
this governance channel empirically and ﬁnd evidence that threat of exit is a potent governance
mechanism. Although these authors focus on threat of exit while we study the voice mechanism,
they test voice as an alternative to exit, and we discuss the relationship between these papers and
ours in the following.
Edmans, Fang, and Zur (2013) (EFZ) identify investors’ preferences for voice versus threat
of exit from their ﬁlings of 13D and 13G forms with the SEC. The ﬁling of one of these forms
is compulsory for shareholders crossing the 5% ownership threshold. Blockholders who intend to
inﬂuence the control of the ﬁrm must ﬁle a 13D, whereas blockholders without such intent may
ﬁle the less comprehensive 13G form. They argue that because 13G-ﬁlers relinquish the option to
exercise voice, the threat of exit channel may be identiﬁed by studying how liquidity aﬀects the
choice between 13G and 13D ﬁlings. Using a sample of activist hedge funds that have ﬁled either
a 13D or a 13G form, EFZ ﬁnd that higher liquidity is negatively associated with the probability
of ﬁling the 13D form. They conclude: “Conditional upon acquiring a stake, liquidity reduces the
likelihood that the blockholder governs through voice (...).” The apparent contradiction of this
result with our ﬁndings is due to diﬀerences in empirical design.
EFZ’s empirical speciﬁcation assumes that blocks are accumulated with the intention of aﬀecting
governance and that blockholders choose between the strategies of voice and threat of exit. If the
two strategies are substitutes, their result indeed implies that higher liquidity decreases activists’
4

=== PAGE 7 ===
preferences for voice. But if the strategies are not substitutes, investors selection of one does not
imply rejection of the other. Because their speciﬁcation examines liquidity’s eﬀect on the ﬁling of
one form as opposed to the other, their result says that liquidity increases therelative attractiveness
of acquiring a 5%-block without the option of voice (13G) compared to acquiring a 5%-block with
the voice option (13D), and therefore does not necessarily contrast with ours. For example, if some
governance problems can best be handled by voice and others by threat of exit, the EFZ ﬁnding
simply implies that liquidity has a relatively stronger eﬀect on exit threat but the eﬀect of liquidity
on voice could still be positive. 5 Alternatively, if investors accumulate blocks for reasons unrelated
to governance but rather to trade on their perception of undervaluation, the EFZ result implies
that liquidity has a relatively stronger eﬀect on investment in undervalued ﬁrms than it has on the
likelihood of voice.
The empirical speciﬁcation in our paper tests how liquidity aﬀects the choice between voice and
no-governance using a sample of investors identiﬁed by their observed election of voice. To the extent
that 13D ﬁlings signify activist intent, our approach and results are consistent with a second result
provided by EFZ, which shows that higher liquidity increases the (unconditional) probability that
hedge funds ﬁle a 13D against the alternative of not ﬁling. However, Gantchev (2013) documents
that two-thirds of 13D-ﬁling blockholders never go on to make any formal demands to their target.
Thus, the ﬁling of a 13D form does not imply that the ﬁler has paid or will pay the costs of an
actual intervention. A 13D ﬁling is therefore a less suitable deﬁnition of an activist event for our
purposes because the mechanism that we test in this paper necessitates a high cost of activism.
Bharath, Jayaraman, and Nagar (2013) (BJN) takes a diﬀerent approach to test the threat of
exit theory, focusing on the relationship between ﬁrm value and liquidity without reliance on actual
events of activism. They document that exogenous liquidity shocks have a larger eﬀect on the value
of ﬁrms with blockholders. Recognizing that this is consistent both with threat of exit and the
mechanism of voice, they show that the accentuating eﬀect of blockholders is stronger in ﬁrms
where managerial compensation is more sensitive to ﬁrm value. The identiﬁcation strategy of BJN
validates threat of exit by showing that liquidity’s impact is stronger in subsamples where threat
5Admati and Pﬂeiderer (2009) demonstrate that some types of agency problems cannot be remedied through
threat of exit suggesting that investors would prefer voice for certain governance problems.
5

=== PAGE 8 ===
of exit would be expected to be present. This, however, does not rule out that voice is operative
in other subsamples. Nor does it imply that investors prefer one governance strategy over the
other. Indeed, BJN conclude that threat of exit and voice are distinct and concomitant governance
mechanisms. This is also consistent with survey evidence presented in McCahery, Sautner, and
Starks (2011), showing that dissatisﬁed institutional investors frequently make use of both exit and
voice. Compared to BJN, our paper contributes by distinctly focusing on the eﬀect of liquidity on
voice and by studying actual events of activism.
Our paper is also related to a large empirical literature on the eﬀects of shareholder activism.
Early papers on activism, surveyed in Gillan and Starks (1998) and Karpoﬀ (2001), provide little
evidence that activism by institutional investors is able to impact the performance of targeted
ﬁrms. A more recent group of papers collect data on hedge fund activism from 13D ﬁlings to
identify hedge funds’ targeting strategies and assess the value created by their activism (Brav,
Jiang, Partnoy, and Thomas, 2008; Cliﬀord, 2008; Greenwood and Schor, 2009; Klein and Zur,
2009; Brav, Jiang, and Kim, 2010). One insight from these studies is that hedge funds successfully
target undervalued companies with stable cash ﬂows and bring about improvements in target ﬁrms’
performance. Although Brav et al. (2008) report that hedge funds tend to target more liquid ﬁrms,
they do not consider how liquidity impacts their incentive to undertake activism. Becht, Franks,
Mayer, and Rossi (2009) also show that hedge fund activism may increase ﬁrm value, using detailed
data on activist engagements by the Hermes U.K. Focus Fund. Gantchev and Jotikasthira (2013)
study how 13D-ﬁling hedge funds are able to quickly accumulate concentrated stakes in target
ﬁrms. They ﬁnd that activist hedge funds acquire target ﬁrms’ stock in response to price pressure
generated by institutional investors that are selling the stock in response to outﬂow shocks. The
early contribution by Fang, Noe, and Tice (2009), documents a positive eﬀect of liquidity on
company performance, but focuses on other mechanisms than voice. Rather than focusing on the
eﬀectiveness of activism and its eﬀect on ﬁrm valuation, we investigate the impact of stock liquidity
on shareholders’ incentives to take an active role in the ﬁrst place.
6

=== PAGE 9 ===
3 Data and sample selection
We use a sample of ﬁrms listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the American Stock
Exchange (AMEX), and Nasdaq. Data on shareholder activism and pre-activism trading are col-
lected from the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval system (EDGAR) of the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Stock returns, prices, and data on volume traded are from
the Center for Research in Security Prices (CRSP). Data on eﬀective trading costs (Hasbrouck,
2009) is from Joel Hasbrouck’s web site. Accounting variables are from Compustat. Data on ana-
lyst following is from I/B/E/S. We use Thomson Financial Ownership data (CDA/Spectrum s34)
to collect information on institutional investors’ ownership. The following section describes our
data selection procedure and explains how we deﬁne and measure shareholder activism and stock
liquidity.
3.1 Shareholder activism
In the context of this paper, a ﬁrm is said to experience “shareholder activism” in year t if a
shareholder ﬁles material that contests the proxy solicitations of the ﬁrm’s management.
At shareholder meetings, registered shareholders vote using proxy cards. Issues to be voted
on are decided by management and the board of directors and are included in a company’s proxy
material mailed to its shareholders. Proxy contests are situations where a group of shareholders
disagree with the policies proposed by management and the dissident shareholders solicit proxies
from other shareholders by ﬁling their own proxy material with the SEC. Shareholders return the
proxy cards of the company or the dissident shareholders depending on which campaign they sup-
port. Dissidents’ distribution of alternative proxy material to shareholders is time-consuming and
costly, and typically requires legal advice. Proxy solicitations by dissident shareholders commonly
include an alternative slate of nominee candidates to the board, but may also include proposals
to sell the company, approve or vote against a merger, increase the size of the board, or replace
management.
Alternatively, shareholders may include “shareholder proposals” directly in the company’s proxy
7

=== PAGE 10 ===
material permitting a vote on the proposal at the shareholder meeting. This right is provided
by Rule 14a-8 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, but company’s management may refuse to
include proposals that nominate candidates to the board of directors or directly conﬂict with policies
proposed by management. Shareholder proposals are almost always only advisory to the board
according to state laws. Recent changes in Rule 14-a8 made by the SEC has empowered shareholders
to implement proxy access by specifying proceduresby which shareholders may nominate directors.
These rules came into eﬀect from 2012 and therefore did not apply to the events of activism in our
sample. In our sample, proxy contests are the only means of nominating alternative directors.
As of May 6, 1996 all public domestic companies in the U.S. are required to ﬁle material corpo-
rate information on EDGAR. We use EDGAR to identify ﬁrms that experience shareholder activism
and manually retrieve forms ﬁled in connection with shareholder meetings by non-management
and ﬁlings relating to contested proxy solicitations. Speciﬁcally, we deﬁne an activist as a share-
holder that ﬁled one or more of the following SEC forms: forms PREC14A, PREN14A, PRRN14A,
DEFC14A, DEFN14A, DFRN14A, DFAN14A, and DEFC14C up to the third quarter of 2007.
We do not collect separate information about shareholder proposals from other sources than these
forms. Sponsors of shareholder proposals sometimes ﬁle materials or statements under Rule 14a-
12.6 Also, proxy statements sometimes mention that the sponsor of a contested solicitation is also
behind one or several shareholder proposals. Some of our activist events, therefore, will consist of
shareholder proposals, either alone or in combination with proxy contests.
Some investors ﬁled voluntarily on EDGAR between the third quarter of 1993 and May 1996
and are included in our sample to the extent that these voluntary ﬁlings represent contested proxy
material. For the sample period starting with the third quarter of 1993 through the third quarter
of 2007, we identify 8,783 unique forms ﬁled by non-management. It is common for a ﬁler to ﬁle a
sequence of forms concerning the same issue for the same ﬁrm, especially in relation to contested
solicitations where both management and non-management typically ﬁle interchangeably with the
SEC a number of times. We adopt the rule that the ﬁrst date of a ﬁling sequence deﬁnes the year
6Rule 14a-12 of the 1934 Securities Exchange Act permits a party that is required to ﬁle a proxy statement to
commence a proxy solicitation before the time of ﬁling the proxy statement with the SEC. The rule enables dissident
shareholders to communicate their position to other shareholders.
8

=== PAGE 11 ===
in which the ﬁrm in question experiences shareholder activism. If there is a period of more than
one year of no ﬁlings in a sequence of ﬁlings, the ﬁrst ﬁling after the gap is deﬁned as the ﬁrst
ﬁling in a new intervention. A gap of more than one year in a sequence of ﬁlings occurs in 20 cases,
representing about 2 percent of our ﬁling sequences.
Following these procedures, we are able to collect 998 such shareholder activism ﬁrm-year
observations from the years 1994 up to and including the third quarter of 2007 (the sample, thus,
is not confounded by the events of the Lehman default and the following ﬁnancial crisis). The
sample is reduced by 174 observations because we cannot ﬁnd the event ﬁrm in CRSP and by an
additional 135 observations because we require the event ﬁrm to be listed on NYSE, AMEX or
Nasdaq with common equity. In all the analysis that follows, we require information both from
CRSP and Compustat. Restricting the sample ﬁrms to have information on market capitalization
and book-to-market ratio in the year prior to the activism-year, reduces the sample by another
98 observations. A closer inspection of the remaining observations reveals that 88 cases are ﬁlings
that follow a friendly negotiated merger agreement between the ﬁler and the subject ﬁrm. These
observations are removed from the sample, leaving us with 503 cases of shareholder activism.
Finally, we eliminate ﬁlings where the shareholder activist has made a formal tender oﬀer or a
more informal expression of interest in the subject ﬁrm (“bear hug”). In these cases, the sponsor of
the solicitation intends to acquire all the shares in the target and is taking steps towards initiating
an election contest, for example, with the purpose of electing new directors willing to redeem bylaws
that impede a takeover. Proxy solicitations in acquisition related cases are essentially a referendum
on the sponsor’s oﬀer for the company (Bebchuck, 2007). We identify 118 such events, leaving us
with 385 activist events. 7
The data we collect diﬀer from the recent studies of hedge fund activism by Brav, Jiang, Partnoy,
and Thomas (2008), Klein and Zur (2009), and Edmans, Fang, and Zur (2013), as the activists
in our sample are not limited to hedge funds and our events are not collected from 13D ﬁlings.
However, many of the shareholder activists in our sample ﬁle a 13D form prior to engaging in a
7Friendly negotiated mergers, tender oﬀers, and “bear hugs” are kept in the sample as non-activism events. Under
our null-hypothesis, liquidity has no eﬀect on activism and it would, in principle, favor the alternative to remove
these cases. In practical terms, removing these cases from our analysis altogether has no eﬀects on the results.
9

=== PAGE 12 ===
proxy ﬁght with the management. Some overlap with hedge fund data collected from 13D ﬁlings
is therefore natural. Our data is more similar to that of Greenwood and Schor (2009) who collect
both 13D and DFAN ﬁlings from a period similar to ours (1993–2006). Their focus, however, is on
how hedge fund activists create value, whereas we use all types of activists and study how liquidity
inﬂuence the decision to become a shareholder activist.
Moreover, investors may acquire blocks of shares and ﬁle the 13D form for reasons unrelated
to the target ﬁrm’s governance. For example, many hedge funds pursue event driven strategies
attempting to proﬁt from the mispricing of companies around major events such as mergers or
restructurings, so-called risk or merger arbitrage. The SEC has established that risk arbitrageurs
who acquire target shares following announcement of a tender oﬀer for the purpose of tendering or
exchanging the stocks in the merger are not eligible to ﬁle form 13G but must ﬁle the 13D form. 8
Thus, the identiﬁcation of hedge fund activism by their 13D-ﬁlings encompasses actions that do not
necessarily constitute the kind of activism envisioned in the theoretical models discussed above. 9 If
voice-related ﬁlings constitute only a part of the 13D ﬁlings made by hedge funds, the covariation
of 13D-ﬁlings with liquidity will also reﬂect the reaction of these non-voice ﬁlings to changes in
liquidity.10
Figure 1 shows the prevalence of shareholder activism over the years in our sample. Each bar in
the ﬁgure represents the fraction of ﬁrms that experience shareholder activism in a given year. The
fraction varies from 0.11% to 0.83%. This represents an average of about 28 shareholder activism
cases per year. The ﬁrst two years in the sample show a number of activism cases that are below
average. This is most likely driven by the fact that fewer ﬁrms ﬁled through EDGAR when ﬁling
was not required by the SEC. The occurrence of shareholder activism was relatively stable during
the ten year period 1996 through 2005. Assuming that the fourth quarter of 2007 (outside the
8The reason being that the transaction changes the control of the issuer. Faith Colish, SEC No-Action Letter,
March 24, 1980.
9Greenwood and Schor (2009) argue that documented positive returns from hedge funds’ activism are driven by
their proﬁts from takeover-related strategies. Hence, we should expect a non-negligible fraction of hedge funds’ 13D
ﬁlings to relate to such investments and we exclude from our sample all events related to (friendly or hostile) mergers.
10On the other hand, 13D ﬁlings may indirectly pick up informal intervention strategies such as private engagement
with management while such actions will not be included in our data. The documentation in Becht, Franks, Mayer,
and Rossi (2009) indicate that private intervention may be important but because little data on private intervention
is available, it is diﬃcult to gauge the importance of liquidity for such types of activism.
10

=== PAGE 13 ===
sample period) displays the same activism intensity as the ﬁrst three quarters of 2007, activism
activity in both 2006 and 2007 is noticeably higher than in the previous years of the sample.
Table 1 reports descriptive statistics for our sample of activism events. Panel A shows the
type of activism. The bulk of our events involve proxy contests (331+3). Shareholder proposals
are a means of activism in 12 percent of our events (43+3). Proxy contests and proposals may
both be used in the same event, although this is not common and occurs in only 3 instances. The
“Other”-type of activism is, for example, a request by the ﬁler asking other shareholders to write
to the target ﬁrm’s management to express dissatisfaction about a particular issue.
Panel B categorizes events according to activist identity and stock ownership. The categories
are overlapping. If, for example, a hedge fund and a pension fund ﬁle jointly, we register the identity
of the ﬁler both as a pension fund and a hedge fund. Filings by two diﬀerent activist types are
quite common. Appendix A explains the categories of activists’ types.
Hedge funds are involved in almost half of the ﬁlings in our sample. Shareholder committees
are the second most active type of activist and are involved in 29 percent of our sample events, 11
whereas individual investors are behind 13 percent of the events. The remaining activist types
make up less than 10 percent of our events. The low involvement of institutional investors may
reﬂect that institutional investors prefer to exert inﬂuence on management through more informal
channels or that institutional investors display a certain reluctance to get involved in activism.
For hedge funds, shareholder committees and individual investors, the average ownership stake
at the time of activism is between 9 and 11 percent. Thus, the average shareholder activist in
our sample is a relatively large blockholder. The industrial shareholder activists’ holdings are the
largest at more than 15 percent on average. Workers unions are at the other end of the scale, they
own close to zero percent in target ﬁrms. The overall average holding for shareholder activists is
about 9 percent.
Panel C of Table 1 shows the distribution of the stated purposes of activism. The far most
prevalent cause of activist campaigns is a conﬂict over directors. As many as 83 percent of our
activist shareholders propose alternative director nominees. Other common conﬂicts arise over
11A shareholder committee is a coordinated group of shareholders joining forces in their attempt to inﬂuence the
target company’s governance. It can comprise both institutional and individual shareholders.
11

=== PAGE 14 ===
corporate governance policies and voting procedures (43%), the company’s business strategy (42%),
initiatives to sell oﬀ part of the ﬁrms (34%), and other measures to improve eﬃciency (26%).
3.2 Pre-activism trading in target ﬁrms by shareholder activists
To investigate the voice hypothesis, we hand-collect data on how shareholder activists trade in target
ﬁrms prior to the activism announcement date. Rule 13D-1(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act
requires active investors to ﬁle with the SEC to disclose the acquisition of more than 5% of any
class of securities of a publicly traded company. The Schedule 13D ﬁling includes trading dates,
prices and quantities traded during the 60 day period before the ﬁling date.
For each target ﬁrm, we search back in time for the 13D ﬁling that is closest to the activism
announcement date. If the ﬁling date of this 13D ﬁling is no more than one year prior to the
announcement date, we record activists’ trades as reported in the 13D ﬁling. In addition, we search
in subsequently ﬁled amendments (SC 13D/A) to the original 13D ﬁling as these amendments
often contain information about additional trades. Hence, if an activist’s 13D ﬁling coincides
with the activism announcement date, we have information about his trades 60 days back in
time. If an activist’s most recent 13D-ﬁling occurs 6 months prior to the announcement date, we
have information about his trades for a period of 8 months back from the announcement date.
Thus, when considering the one year period prior to the activism announcement, our procedure for
collecting trades will potentially ignore early trades if the activist ﬁles more than one 13D during
the period. The motivation for the selected procedure is to focus on the trades that are closest to
the activism announcement day.
Although we have 385 activist events in our sample as described in Table 1, we lose some events
in the regression analysis below because of missing observations associated with the regressions’
control variables. We therefore collect data on trades for a sample of 354 activist events, which are
the events included in our main empirical speciﬁcation, to be presented in Table 3, column 2 below.
For this core sample, we are able to ﬁnd trades by the shareholder activist in the target ﬁrm in 197
cases. There are 157 cases where we have no information about trading. In 88 of the no-trade cases,
the activist owned less than 5% of the target ﬁrm’s shares at the announcement and was therefore
12

=== PAGE 15 ===
not required to report his trades. In these instances we do not know if the activist actually did
not trade or just did not report the trades. There are another 7 cases where we do not know the
ownership of the activist at the time of the announcement. Removing the 95 cases with unknown
ownership or ownership less than 5% leaves us with a sample of 259 event ﬁrms for which we have
information about trading—197 with trades and 62 with no trades. For the 197 event ﬁrms with
trades, we have registered 11,518 trades during the period that starts on day −252 relative to the
activism announcement and ends on day +40.
Figure 2 shows the average net fraction of outstanding shares traded by activists on event days
−252 through +40 relative to the announcement day. The Figure shows that shareholder activists
purchase a signiﬁcant fraction of the target ﬁrm’s stock prior to the announcement. Notice that
almost all trades of the target ﬁrm’s stock are purchases. We will return to more descriptive
statistics on activists’ trading in section 4.4.
4 Empirical evidence
4.1 The probability of shareholder activism
In our basic speciﬁcation we examine the relationship between shareholder activism and liquidity
using the following probit model:
Prob (ACTit = 1| Lit−s, Xit−1) = Φ
(
γt +γ1Lit−s +γ′
2Xit−1
)
. (1)
The dependent variable, ACTit, equals one if ﬁrmi experiences shareholder activism in yeart and is
zero otherwise, Φ(·) is the normal cumulative distribution function and L it is a continuous measure
of ﬁrm i’s stock liquidity deﬁned such that L it is increasing in liquidity. Our main measure of
liquidity is the eﬀective trading cost measure of Hasbrouck (2009) multiplied by−1. The parameter
γt denotes year ﬁxed eﬀects and X it is a (k× 1) vector of control variables to be explained in what
follows.
Control variables are measured in the year prior to the year of activism, while liquidity is
13

=== PAGE 16 ===
lagged s additional years. This is to guard against a potential endogeneity problem caused by
unobservable omitted variables correlated with both liquidity and activism. If the vector of control
variables omits such variables, the estimated coeﬃcient on liquidity will be biased.
For example, more liquid ﬁrms are likely to have more diﬀuse ownership structures with smaller
shareholders. Small shareholders may have few other means of intervention than proxy solicita-
tions. Conversely, less liquid ﬁrms with more concentrated ownership structure may have large
shareholders that can inﬂuence management through both formal and informal channels. If we
do not control for ownership dispersion, the correlation between stock liquidity and the incidence
of proxy solicitations could be spurious—driven by ownership structure rather than liquidity. We
include three variables that control for ownership structure: “Herﬁndahl index of institutional own-
ership,” measured as the sum of squared ownership fractions for shareholders making 13F ﬁlings
with the SEC; “Institutional holding,” measured as the aggregate stockholdings of shareholders
making 13F ﬁlings to the SEC; “Institutional breadth,” measured as the number of institutional
investors that have reported ownership through 13F ﬁlings normalized with the total number of
institutional owners reporting in a given year (Chen, Hong, and Stein, 2002).
Similarly, momentum may be correlated both with the incidence of activism and with liquidity.
Momentum losers may have higher liquidity and subsequent poor returns may foster activism
in future periods, causing the estimated eﬀect of liquidity to be biased for stocks with negative
momentum. To prevent momentum from biasing our results, we include “Abnormal performance”
lagged one and two periods. “Abnormal performance” is measured as the arithmetic average
monthly abnormal performance for ﬁrm i over January through December. Abnormal monthly
performance for ﬁrm i in months is computed as follows: Using a minimum of 12 monthly returns
and a maximum of 60 monthly returns for the period s−60 throughs−1, we regress excess returns
for stock i on the three Fama and French (1993) factors and a momentum factor. If less than 12
monthly returns are available when estimating factor coeﬃcients for ﬁrm i, the returns on stock
i are replaced by the returns on stock i’s industry portfolio. The industry portfolio is one of the
Fama-French 12 industry portfolios. The coeﬃcients from this regression are multiplied with the
corresponding factor realizations for month s and summed up to get the benchmark return for
14

=== PAGE 17 ===
months. The abnormal return for month s is the diﬀerence between the return on stock i and the
benchmark return. All factors and industry portfolio returns are downloaded from Ken French’s
web site.
The visibility of a targeted ﬁrm may be correlated both with the incidence of activism and with
liquidity. Stocks that are followed by many analysts may both be more liquid and more subjected
to shareholder activism because of greater media coverage. To prevent visibility from biasing our
results, we include “Analyst coverage,” measured as the number of analysts that report earnings
estimates to I/B/E/S, as a control variable in the regressions.
In addition, we include a number of other control variables intended to pick up individual
ﬁrm characteristics: “Volatility” is the standard deviation of monthly returns during year t− 1.
“Nasdaq” is a dummy variable that takes the value one if the stock is listed on Nasdaq and
zero otherwise. “Log(Market cap)” is measured as the natural logarithm of the end-of-December
market capitalization. “Book-to-market ratio” is measured as the book value of equity divided by
the market value of equity at the end of the calendar year. “Log(Sales)” is measured as the natural
logarithm of the dollar value of sales. “Cash” is measured as cash and marketable securities divided
by total assets. “Dividend yield” is measured as the total dividend (common dividend plus preferred
dividend) divided by market value of common equity plus book value of preferred equity. Book
value of preferred equity is the ﬁrst non-missing value when using redemption value, liquidating
value, and the carrying value in that order. “R&D” is measured as research and development
expenses divided by total assets. If R&D expenses are missing from Compustat they are assumed
to be zero. All variables constructed as ratios and using data from Compustat (book-to-market
ratio, Cash, dividend yield) are trimmed by removing the lower and upper 0.005 percentile. R&D
has a minimum value of zero and is trimmed only on the right tail.
Finally, our speciﬁcation includes year ﬁxed eﬀects. Both shareholder activism and stock market
liquidity have risen during the last couple of decades. A regression of the incidence of activism on
liquidity may therefore show a positive eﬀect of liquidity on activism, even if the trends in the two
variables occur for unrelated reasons. Our hypotheses, however, concern cross-sectional diﬀerences
between stocks. If the time trend is not controlled for, the estimated coeﬃcient of liquidity may
15

=== PAGE 18 ===
pick up the time-variation as opposed to the cross-sectional relationships we are interested in. This
is akin to the omitted variable bias discussed above. The positive trends in activism and stock
market liquidity induce a co-movement that may be alleviated if we include a control for time in
the regression.
Table 2 provides descriptive statistics for the right hand side variables in model (1). The ﬁrst
four numerical columns report number of non-missing ﬁrm-years and averages for ﬁrm-years with
activism and for ﬁrm-years without activism. As reported in Panel A of Table 1, there are a total
of 385 events in our sample. The second column shows that there are missing observations for some
of the control variables. Thus, when all variables are used in a regression, our sample will generally
include less than 385 event ﬁrms. The table presents initial evidence of a relationship between
shareholder activism and liquidity. Firms that experience shareholder activism have signiﬁcantly
higher liquidity than ﬁrms that do not experience activism. Target ﬁrms also underperform the
Fama and French (1993) plus momentum benchmark on average, indicating that the occurrence of
shareholder activism is negatively related to the target ﬁrm’s stock market performance. Among
the remaining control variables, target ﬁrms have more institutional shareholders, lower volatility,
lower book-to-market ratio, and spend less on R&D.
Moving on to the probit regressions, Table 3 presents the results from the estimation of equa-
tion (1). We present results for two diﬀerent lags of liquidity. In column (1), liquidity is measured
contemporaneously with the other covariates. This speciﬁcation assumes that liquidity is an exoge-
nous variable. It is possible, however, that changes in ownership in year t-1 aﬀect liquidity in year
t, and that those ownership changes give rise to subsequent shareholder activism. Although we
include measures of ownership structure as control variables, they may not capture all patterns of
changes equally well and there may be an omitted variable problem. For this reason, our preferred
speciﬁcation lags liquidity one additional year, to year ( t− 2). The results estimated using this
latter speciﬁcation are presented in column (2) of the table. All regressions include year ﬁxed eﬀects
(not shown). The estimated coeﬃcients for the year ﬁxed eﬀects are generally highly signiﬁcant.
The probit regression in column (1) shows a statistically signiﬁcant and positive eﬀect of liquidity
on the probability of activism. When measuring liquidity in year t− 2 relative to the activism year
16

=== PAGE 19 ===
(column (2)), the eﬀect of liquidity remains positive and statistically signiﬁcant. Thus, ﬁrms with
more liquid stocks are more likely to be targeted by shareholder activists. The economic eﬀect
corresponding to the estimated coeﬃcients is also large. The bottom part of the Table reports
the eﬀect on the probability of activism for an increase in stock liquidity from the 10th to the
90th percentile, holding other variables at their sample means. For the speciﬁcation in column (2),
such an increase in liquidity generates a statistically signiﬁcant 0.40 percentage points increase in
the likelihood of activism. 12 Despite the small absolute value of this change, there are at least
two reasons why this is an economically important ﬁnding. First, the unconditional probability of
activism in the sample is only 0.56%. Thus, the estimated increase from the 10 to the 90th percentile
is 71.2% of the sample probability of activism. In other words, holding everything else constant,
the diﬀerence in liquidity when comparing the most liquid to the least liquid stocks accounts for
a diﬀerence in activism almost two-thirds as large as the overall chance of experiencing activism.
Second, shareholder activism in the form of voice is not always observable to outsiders. The events
used to identify shareholder activism in this paper are rare. This does not mean that voice is an
unimportant form of activism. Survey evidence by McCahery, Sautner, and Starks (2011) shows
that more than 50% of institutional investors are willing to employ voice by engaging management
in discussions.
Turning to the coeﬃcient estimates of the control variables in column (2) of Table 3, we see
that the probability of activism is negatively related to past stock market performance, that is,
underperforming ﬁrms are more likely to be targets of activism. 13 Both institutional ownership
and breath are positively related to shareholder activism. This is consistent with the ﬁndings of
Gantchev and Jotikasthira (2013) who show that institutional selling pressure arising from liquidity
shocks facilitates activist hedge funds’ acquisition of target ﬁrms’ stock.
In sum, the results presented in Table 3 show that liquidity, on average, has a positive eﬀect on
the probability of activism. Thus, our ﬁndings support the notion that liquidity improves corporate
12The likelihood increases from 0.33 to 0.73 percent points for the 10th and the 90th percentile respectively. A
Wald test of the null hypothesis that the change in the probability of activism is equal to zero has a p-value of 0.000
(standard errors are estimated with the delta method).
13Other papers also ﬁnd that poor past market-adjusted stock performance increases the probability of activism.
See for example Gordon and Pound (1993), Karpoﬀ, Malatesta, and Walkling (1996), and Del Guercio and Hawkins
(1999) who study shareholder proposals and Faleye (2004) who study proxy contests.
17

=== PAGE 20 ===
governance by facilitating shareholder activism. The next section investigates the robustness of this
conclusion.
4.2 Robustness checks
Table 4 reports probit regressions as speciﬁed in equation (1), but with alternative ways of mea-
suring liquidity. In column (1), we lag liquidity even further, measuring it over the years t− 4 and
t− 3 relative to the year of activism. The results are qualitatively similar to our earlier results.
The eﬀect of a discrete increase in liquidity from the bottom to the top decile continues to generate
a sizeable increase in the likelihood of activism.
Even though the probit regression includes carefully selected control variables, one may never-
theless worry that some unobservable ﬁrm-speciﬁc characteristic correlated with both liquidity and
activism is biasing our results. We therefore also present results from an instrumental variable pro-
bit regression. Valid instruments must be correlated with stock liquidity but uncorrelated with any
unobservable variables that may exert an independent eﬀect on activism. We use two instruments
for liquidity. First, we construct an instrument that exploits the introduction of decimalization on
NYSE, AMEX, and Nasdaq in 2001. The introduction of decimalization constitutes an exogenous
shock to liquidity that is uncorrelated with shareholder activism as required for an instrument.
To create cross-sectional variation in the instrument, we interact a dummy for decimalization with
the average ﬁrm size over the years prior to decimalization. 14 We prefer to measure ﬁrm size by
Ln(sales) because sales are unaﬀected by movements in stock prices as opposed to, say, market
capitalization. The interacted variable equals zero prior to decimalization and attains a constant
value in the years afterwards, such that the constant magnitude is larger for larger ﬁrms. The sec-
ond instrument is created from the average liquidity of stocks in industries other than the industry
of the stock in question. We use average liquidity of ﬁrms in other industries in year t− 2 as an
instrument for the liquidity of stock i in year t− 2. The construction and further justiﬁcation of
instruments are explained in detail in Appendix B.
Column (2) shows results from an instrumental variable probit regression using the two instru-
14Furﬁne (2003) and Chakravarty, Wood, and van Hess (2004) document that the impact of decimalization was
larger for stocks traded more actively, and we use size as a proxy for more actively traded stocks.
18

=== PAGE 21 ===
ments described above. The results are qualitatively unchanged compared to the previous results.
The eﬀect of liquidity is statistically signiﬁcant although somewhat larger and estimated with less
precision as would be expected. The estimated eﬀect of a discrete increase in liquidity from the
10th to the 90th percentile also appears to be somewhat large when compared to our other es-
timates, but the estimate is statistically signiﬁcant at a level below 5%. The corresponding ﬁrst
stage regressions, a Wald test of exogeneity, and an overidentiﬁcation test of instrument validity
are enclosed as Table B.1 in Appendix B.
The remaining two columns show results from regressions using, respectively, a measure of liq-
uidity orthogonalized with respect to ownership, and a zero-one dummy representation of liquidity.
In column (3), liquidity is measured using the residual from the regression:
Lt−2 =γ0 +γ1Herft−2 +γ2InstHt−2 +γ3InstBt−2 +γ4AvgLt−2 +ϵt−2,
where L is the Hasbrouck (2009) measure multiplied by −1, Herf is the Herﬁndahl index of insti-
tutional ownership, InstH is Institutional holdings, InstB is Institutional breadth, and AvgL is the
average Hasbrouck (2009) illiquidity in the cross-section of ﬁrms in year t− 2. We bootstrap the
standard errors to make them robust to non-normalities in the data. In column (4), liquidity is
measured as a dummy variable that equals one in year t if the stock’s liquidity is greater than the
cross-sectional median in year t and zero otherwise.
In both speciﬁcations documented in the last columns of Table 4, the eﬀect of liquidity is clearly
signiﬁcant and economically large. The increase in the probability of activism when liquidity goes
from the bottom to the top decile is of similar size as in the model in column (1) and continues to
be economically sizable.
In the next set of robustness checks, documented in Table 5, we replace the Hasbrouck (2009)
eﬀective cost measure with the trade impact measure of Amihud (2002). To ensure that higher
values of the liquidity variable correspond to higher liquidity the Amihud trade impact measure
is also multiplied by −1. The measure is also winsorized at the 1st and 99th percentile. This
removes some big outliers, caused by stocks with very large stock returns and low volume, that are
19

=== PAGE 22 ===
close to 500 times larger than the average liquidity. Columns (1) through (4) in the Table report
the results from estimating model (1) using four diﬀerent measures of Amihud liquidity: Liquidity
measured one year prior to the year of activism, liquidity measured two years prior to the year of
activism, liquidity measured over yearst− 4 andt− 3 relative to the year of activism, and liquidity
instrumented in the same way as described in connection with column (2) of Table 4. The Amihud
measure produces qualitatively similar results to the Hasbrouck measure. The eﬀect of liquidity is
positive and statistically signiﬁcant. Looking at the bottom part of Table 5 where we estimate the
change in the probability of activism when liquidity is changed from the 10th to the 90th percentile,
the estimated impact of liquidity on activism is smaller than the previously estimated eﬀect. The
magnitude is, however, still economically signiﬁcant, constituting an increase in the probability of
activism that is approximately 20% higher than the frequency of activism in the regression sample.
Overall, the results presented in this robustness section show that the ﬁndings in Table 3 are
robust to how liquidity is deﬁned and to the period over which liquidity is measured. Thus, we
retain our conclusion that liquidity, on average, increases the probability of activism. However, the
average eﬀect of liquidity in our sample of event ﬁrms, could potentially conceal interesting cross-
sectional variations in the eﬀect of liquidity. The next section investigates such cross-sectional
variations.
4.3 Activism in overvalued ﬁrms
Our results so far indicate that the average eﬀect of liquidity on the probability of activism is
positive. However, the eﬀect of liquidity may, for some ﬁrms, work in the opposite direction. As
pointed out by Kahn and Winton (1998) and Winton and Li (2006), a blockholder who privately
observes that a ﬁrm is overvalued may ﬁnd it optimal to sell rather than initiate a value improving
but costly intervention. Winton and Li (2006) show theoretically that the more liquid the stock,
the larger is the incentive to exit in this case. Conversely, when the stock is illiquid, the costs of
selling out may exceed the costs of intervention. This argument implies that for overvalued ﬁrms,
the eﬀect of liquidity on the likelihood of activism is negative.
By nature, it is impossible to identify the ﬁrms where blockholders have private information
20

=== PAGE 23 ===
about overvaluation. The theory can, however, be tested using empirical proxies for overvaluation.
We draw on diﬀerent strands of the literature to construct such proxies. First, there is an extensive
literature investigating the theories of Miller (1977) and Harrison and Kreps (1978) which shows that
stocks subject to short sales constraints and diﬀerences of opinion can be overvalued in equilibrium.
We follow Nagel (2005) and measure short sale constraints by institutional ownership. Nagel argues
that stocks with low institutional ownership tend to have sparse stock loan supply. Consequently,
short sale constraints can be proxied by Ln(1/Institutional Holding), where Institutional Holding
is the fraction of outstanding shares held by institutions ﬁling 13F forms with the SEC. To proxy
for diﬀerences in opinion about the valuation of a given stock, we follow Baker and Wurgler (2007)
and use return volatility. Return volatility is measured as the standard deviation of monthly
stock returns over a period of one year. 15 We combine the two proxies for diﬀerences of opinion
and short sale constraints in the measure Ln(Volatility/Institutional Holding). Holding Volatility
ﬁxed, the likelihood of the stock being short sale constrained is increasing in this measure. Fixing
Institutional Holding, diﬀerences of opinion is also increasing in the measure. Thus, the likelihood
of overvaluation is increasing in Ln(Volatility/Institutional Holding). As robustness, we also use
Ln(1/Institutional Holding) and Volatility as separate measures of overvaluation.
Second, we adopt the idea that prolonged stock price pressure may result from institutional
trading due to the inﬂows and outﬂows they face from investors (Sias, Starks, and Titman, 2006;
Coval and Staﬀord, 2007). A mutual fund experiencing large inﬂows would tend to increase its
existing positions inducing positive price pressure in the stocks it already holds. Stocks with high
price pressure are more likely to be overvalued. We follow Edmans, Goldstein, and Jiang (2012)
and create a measure of price pressure caused by mutual fund inﬂows. We get mutual fund holdings
from Thomson Reuters and mutual fund ﬂows from CRSP and consider equity funds only but omit
sector speciﬁc funds. The inﬂow-induced price pressure on stock i in quarter j is constructed as
Price Pressureit =
M∑
j=1
Fjt×sijt−1
VOL it
, (2)
15Berkman, Dimitrov, Jain, Koch, and Tice (2009) also use institutional ownership to measure short sale constraints
and return volatility to proxy for diﬀerences of opinion.
21

=== PAGE 24 ===
where Fjt is the dollar value of inﬂows experienced by mutual fund j in quarter t, sijt−1 is the
proportion of mutual fund j’s total assets accounted for by stock i at the end of the previous
quarter, and VOL it is the dollar trading volume of stock i in quarter t.16 In (2), the summation
is only done for mutual funds for which Fjt scaled by total assets exceeds 5%. In the analysis
below, Price Pressure it is summed over the four quarters in a calendar year. Notice that the
price pressure variable is not computed from mutual funds’ actual purchases of stock i, but instead
assumes that mutual funds experiencing inﬂows of signiﬁcant size purchase additional stocks in
proportion to their existing holdings. This reduces that likelihood that the price pressure variable
is capturing mutual funds’ information-based trading.
The theories of Kahn and Winton (1998) and Winton and Li (2006) suggest that the eﬀect of
liquidity on activism is negative for overvalued ﬁrms. In the data we do not, however, expect to
ﬁnd a negative relationship for two reasons: First, by their nature, our proxies for overvaluation
are noisy. Thus, some of the ﬁrms that we classify as overvalued may be correctly priced or even
undervalued. Second, our overvaluation measures do not incorporate the potential ﬁrm-speciﬁc
value-improvements generated by activism. Thus, certain ﬁrms classiﬁed as overvalued by our
proxies, may be undervalued when the value improvement resulting from the activists’ actions are
also taken into account. For such ﬁrms, there should be a positive relationship between liquidity and
the probability of activism. In line with this, rather than expecting to ﬁnd a negative relationship
between liquidity and the probability of activism, we hypothesize that the previously documented
positive eﬀect of liquidity on activism is likely to be diminished for overvalued ﬁrms. In what
follows, we test this hypothesis.
We specify a probit regression that allows us to test if the eﬀect of liquidity on the probability
of activism changes with overvaluation. Using price pressure to illustrate, we are interested in
examining whether the eﬀect of liquidity on the probability of activism is diﬀerent among ﬁrms
16The proportion of mutual fund j’s total assets accounted for by stock i is given by
sijt = Nijt ×Pit
TA jt
,
whereNijt is the number of shares in stock i held by mutual fund j in quarter t,Pit is the market price of stock i at
the end of quarter t, and TA jt is total assets held by the fund in quarter t.
22

=== PAGE 25 ===
with low price pressure (less likely to be overvalued) and ﬁrms with high price pressure (more likely
to be overvalued). We investigate this by adding an interaction term to the probit model presented
in equation (1):
Prob (ACTit = 1| . ) = Φ
(
γt +γ1Lit−2 +γ2Zit−1 +γ3Zit−1× Lit−2 +γ4′ Xit−1
)
, (3)
where Z is our proxy for the likelihood of the ﬁrm being overvalued. The other variables are deﬁned
in connection with equation (1).
In equation (3), we are interested in how Z moderates the eﬀect of liquidity on activism, that
is, how the marginal eﬀect of liquidity changes in Z. This eﬀect is given by the cross-derivative of
Φ(·) with respect to L and Z, which in our speciﬁcation is:
∂
(∂Φ(u)
∂L
)
∂Z =γ3Φ′ (u) + (γ1 +γ3Zit−1) (γ2 +γ3Lit−2) Φ′′ (u). (4)
Norton, Wang, and Ai (2004) provide a Stata procedure “inteﬀ” that estimates this marginal eﬀect
as well as the standard errors of the eﬀect computed with the delta method (see also Ai and Norton,
2003). We report the estimated marginal interaction eﬀect from (4) as the average value across all
the observations in the sample.
Table 6 presents results from estimating the model in equation (3) when liquidity is measured
using the eﬀective trading cost measure of Hasbrouck (2009). Focusing ﬁrst on column (1) where
overvaluation is measured by Ln(Volatility/Institutional Holding), the ﬁrst row shows that the
coeﬃcient estimate on the interaction term is negative and statistically signiﬁcant. More impor-
tantly, the second segment of the Table shows that the average liquidity-overvaluation interaction
eﬀect is negative (−0.06). The associated average z-value,−2.2, indicates statistical signiﬁcance at
conventional levels. Thus, the marginal eﬀect of liquidity on the probability of activism is smaller
when the ﬁrm is more likely to be overvalued. Results presented in the last three rows of column
(1) reinforce this conclusion. Here we compare the eﬀect on the probability of activism of a discrete
change in liquidity from the 10th to the 90th percentile when the overvaluation proxy is held at the
23

=== PAGE 26 ===
10th percentile with the corresponding change in liquidity when the overvaluation proxy is held at
the 90th percentile. With overvaluation at the 10th decile, a discrete change in liquidity increases
the probability of activism with 0.68 percentage points. The corresponding change in liquidity for
the most overvalued ﬁrms (the 90th decile) increases the probability of activism by 0.33 percent-
age points, that is, the eﬀect is approximately halved. The last row of the Table shows that the
diﬀerence of 0.36 percentage points is statistically signiﬁcant with a p-value of 0.035.
Columns (2) and (3) of Table 6 estimates the eﬀect of overvaluation using Volatility and
Ln(1/Institutional Holding) as separate overvaluation proxies. The results are very similar to
the results when Ln(Volatility/Institutional Holding) is the overvaluation proxy. Column (4) of
Table 6 shows how overvaluation moderates the eﬀect of liquidity on the likelihood of activism
when overvaluation is proxied by price pressure from mutual fund inﬂows. Focusing on the second
segment of the Table, the average liquidity-overvaluation interaction eﬀect is negative and statis-
tically signiﬁcant. When investigating large changes in liquidity (last three rows of the Table) we
again see that the eﬀect of liquidity on the likelihood of activism is signiﬁcantly smaller when the
ﬁrm is more likely to be overvalued.
Notice that column (3) of Table 6 shows that the eﬀect of liquidity on voice is smaller for ﬁrms
more likely to be short sale constrained (i.e., ﬁrms with low institutional ownership.) By itself, this
results is also consistent with Edmans’ (2009) theoretical result that greater short sale constraints
enhances threat of exit. However, all our other proxies for overvaluation have similar eﬀects as
the proxy for short sale constraints. That is consistent with Kahn and Winton (1998) and Winton
and Li (2006) but not with Edmans (2009), and suggest that our results are indeed driven by a
diminished incentive for voice rather than threat of exit.
Table 7 presents the same analysis as in Table 6, except that the eﬀective trading cost measure
of Hasbrouck (2009) is replaced by the trade impact measure of Amihud (2002). The results are
qualitatively similar.
In sum, the evidence documented in Table 6 and Table 7 is consistent with our earlier ﬁndings
that liquidity increases the probability of activism for the average ﬁrm. However, the eﬀect of
liquidity is considerably smaller for ﬁrms that are more likely to be overvalued. These ﬁndings
24

=== PAGE 27 ===
imply that liquidity decreases the probability of activism in overvalued ﬁrms, consistent with the
proposition of Kahn and Winton (1998) and Winton and Li (2006).
In the next section we attempt to uncover the mechanism through which liquidity impacts
activism by documenting the importance of activists’ pre-event trading in the target ﬁrm’s stock.
4.4 Evidence on pre-activism trading in target ﬁrms
So far we have documented an economically and statistically strong positive relationship between
liquidity and the probability of activism. This ﬁnding is consistent with the view that high liquidity
facilitates pre-activism trading in target ﬁrms. When the expected proﬁt (price appreciation) from
existing holdings and pre-activism trading outweighs the expected cost of activism, shareholder
activism will occur, creating a positive relationship between liquidity and the probability of ac-
tivism. This section documents that pre-activism trading is common and that shareholder activists
on average purchase a signiﬁcant fraction of their holdings at announcement during a short period
just prior to the announcement of activism.
Table 8 presents descriptive statistics on pre-activism trading. As discussed in subsection 3.2,
we are able to extract trading data for a sample of 259 target ﬁrms. The ﬁrst column in Table 8
shows that in 143 of these ﬁrms, hedge fund activists are involved. For the majority of the remaining
116 cases, the shareholder activist is a shareholder committee, an individual investor and/or an
investment company. The second column shows that shareholder activists trade in the target ﬁrm
prior to the activism announcement in 76% of the 259 cases. The next two columns show that there
are 11,518 trades reported and that 95% of these trades are purchases. Thus, pre-activism buying
of target shares occurs in two-thirds of our events, suggesting that pre-event accumulation of stock
does not occur in ad-hoc manner but is an integral part of many activists’ intervention strategies.
The last six columns of Table 8 report descriptive statistics on trade size, the fraction of out-
standing shares acquired during the 252 day trading period prior to the activism announcement,
and a measure of the proﬁt from pre-activism trading. Focusing on the ﬁrst row, the average
trade size is $346,000. The medium trade size is only $16,000, implying that the average trade
size is driven up by some very large trades. Activist shareholders acquire a signiﬁcant portion of
25

=== PAGE 28 ===
their ownership during the 252-day period leading up to the activism announcement. The two
columns entitled “Acquired ownership” show that activist shareholders that trade in the target
ﬁrm, on average acquire a total of 4.25% of the target ﬁrm’s outstanding shares during the 252-day
period prior to the announcement. This makes up 54% of the activist’s holdings at the time of
the announcement. Turning to the proﬁt from trading, the average activist earns $1.56 million on
the trades made prior to activism. This proﬁt is computed as the diﬀerence between the shares
acquired, valued at the activism announcement day price, and the actual acquisition price of the
same shares. The last column shows that the proﬁt is 8.5% of the announcement date value of the
acquired shares. Given that most of the trades are done close to the announcement (see Figure 2),
the proﬁt is economically large. Moving to the other rows of the Table, we see that hedge funds
and investment companies acquire a larger than average fraction of the outstanding shares. They
also earn larger proﬁts in absolute terms.
Table 9 investigates the relationship between our liquidity measures and the amount of pre-
activism trading. If liquidity positively aﬀects the probability of activism because it allows activists
to proﬁt from pre-activism trading in the target ﬁrm, the amount of trading should increase in
liquidity. To test this, we regress the fraction of the target ﬁrm’s outstanding shares acquired by
the activist during the 252-day period prior to the announcement on liquidity and a set of control
variables. To ensure that the period over which we measure liquidity and control variables do not
overlap with the period over which we record trading, liquidity is measured in year t− 3 relative to
the activism year while the control variables are measure in year t− 2. Measuring liquidity using
the eﬀective trading cost measure of Hasbrouck (2009), we ﬁnd that liquidity has a positive impact
on the amount of trading. The eﬀect is statistically signiﬁcant with a t-value of 2.52 when using
all available data (column (1)) and with a t-value of 2.07 when dropping observations with zero
trade and ownership below 5 percent (column (2)). Measuring liquidity with the Amihud (2002)
measure leaves us with the same conclusion.
Overall, this section shows that pre-activism trading is very common in our sample of share-
holder activism events. Shareholder activists purchase a signiﬁcant fraction of their holdings of
target shares in the 252-day period ending with the announcement day. The amount of trading is
26

=== PAGE 29 ===
also increasing in the liquidity of the target. The existence of systematic pre-event trading provides
additional evidence in favor of the view that liquidity increases the probability of activism because
it allows a potential activist to trade on the private information that value will be improved through
his forthcoming activism.
5 Conclusion
This paper examines empirically the eﬀect of stock liquidity on shareholders’ incentives to engage
in activism. Theory proposes that liquidity may help to overcome the costs of activism because
it allows the activist to purchase shares in the target at a price that does not reﬂect the (higher)
post-activism value of the ﬁrm. However, liquidity may also discourage activism. In cases where
the shareholder has private information that the ﬁrm is overvalued, he is likely to proﬁt more from
exit as opposed to activist voice.
Using a sample of 385 shareholder activist events collected for the 1994–2007 period, we provide
four pieces of evidence that shed new light on the relationship between liquidity and shareholder
voice. Our ﬁndings support the view that liquidity increases the probability of activism because it
allows a potential activist to trade on his private information that the target ﬁrm’s value will be
improved through activism.
First, we show that that liquidity, on average, has a positive eﬀect on the likelihood of share-
holder activism. Second, we uncover cross-sectional heterogeneity in the eﬀect of liquidity on
activism. Theory suggests the eﬀect will be diminished for overvalued ﬁrms and we interact liquid-
ity with proxies for overvaluation in our regressions. The results show that the eﬀect on activism
of an increase in liquidity is signiﬁcantly lower for the decile of ﬁrms most likely to be overvalued
compared to the decile of ﬁrms least likely to be overvalued. Third, we document that pre-activism
trading is very common in our sample of activism events. Shareholder activists purchase a signif-
icant fraction of their holdings of target shares in a short period leading up to the announcement
of activism announcement. Fourth, the extent of activists’ trading is increasing in the liquidity of
the target ﬁrms’ stocks.
27

=== PAGE 30 ===
We conclude that liquidity has a signiﬁcant impact on shareholders’ incentives to intervene in
corporate governance through its eﬀect on the value of shareholders’ private information. As an
increasing fraction of equity trading is moving from traditional exchanges to new trading venues
and shareholder activism has become an increasingly important way of aﬀecting the governance of
public companies, our paper highlights another reason to discuss and study whether these dramatic
changes in how equities are traded inﬂuence liquidity.
28

=== PAGE 31 ===
References
Admati, A. R., and P. Pﬂeiderer, 2009, “The “Wall Street Walk” and Shareholder Activism: Exit
as a Form of Voice,” Review of Financial Studies , 22, 2645–2685.
Ai, C., and E. C. Norton, 2003, “Interaction Terms in Logit and Probit Models,”Economics Letters,
80, 123–129.
Amihud, Y., 2002, “Illiquidity and Stock Returns: Cross-Section and Time-Series Eﬀects,” Journal
of Accounting and Economics, 5, 31–56.
Baker, M., and J. Wurgler, 2007, “Investor sentiment in the Stock Market,” Journal of Economic
Perspectives, 21, 129–151.
Bebchuck, L. A., 2007, “The Myth of the Shareholder Franchise,” Virginia Law Review, 93, 675–
732.
Becht, M., J. Franks, C. Mayer, and S. Rossi, 2009, “Returns to Shareholder Activism. Evidence
from a Clinical Study of the Hermes UK Focus Fund,” Review of Financial Studies , 22, 3093–
3129.
Berkman, H., V. Dimitrov, P. C. Jain, P. D. Koch, and S. Tice, 2009, “Sell on the news: Diﬀerences
of opinion, short-sales constraints, and returns around earnings announcements,” Journal of
Financial Economics, 92, 376–399.
Bessembinder, H., 2003, “Trade execution costs and market quality after decimalization,” Journal
of Financial and Quantitative Analysis , 38, 747–777.
Bharath, S. T., S. Jayaraman, and V. Nagar, 2013, “Exit as governance: An empirical analysis,”
The Journal of Finance , 68, 2515–2547.
Bhide, A., 1993, “The Hidden Costs of Stock Market Liquidity,” Journal of Financial Economics ,
34, 31–51.
29

=== PAGE 32 ===
Brav, A., W. Jiang, and H. Kim, 2010, “Hedge Fund Activism: A Review,” Unpublished
Manuscript.
Brav, A., W. Jiang, F. Partnoy, and R. Thomas, 2008, “Hedge Fund Activism, Corporate Gover-
nance, and Firm Performance,” The Journal of Finance , 63, 1729–1775.
Chakravarty, S., R. A. Wood, and R. A. van Hess, 2004, “Decimals and liquidity: A study of the
NYSE,” Journal of Financial Research , 27, 75–94.
Chen, J., H. Hong, and J. C. Stein, 2002, “Breadth of Ownership and Stock Returns,” Journal of
Financial Economics, 66, 171–205.
Cliﬀord, C. P., 2008, “Value Creation or Destruction? Hedge Funds as Shareholder Activists,”
Journal of Corporate Finance , 14, 323–336.
Coﬀee, J. C., 1991, “Liquidity versus Control: The Institutional Investor as Corporate Monitor,”
Columbia Law Review, 91, 1277–1368.
Coval, J., and E. Staﬀord, 2007, “Asset Fire Sales (and Purchases) in Equity Markets,” Journal of
Financial Economics, 86, 479–513.
Del Guercio, D., and J. Hawkins, 1999, “The motivation and impact of pension fund activism,”
Journal of Financial Economics , 52, 293–340.
Edmans, A., 2009, “Blockholder Trading, Market Eﬃciency, and Managerial Myopia,”The Journal
of Finance, 64, 2481–2513.
Edmans, A., V. W. Fang, and E. Zur, 2013, “The eﬀect of liquidity on governance,” Review of
Financial Studies, 26, 1443–1482.
Edmans, A., I. Goldstein, and W. Jiang, 2012, “The Real Eﬀects of Financial Markets: The Impact
of Prices on Takeovers,” The Journal of Finance , 62, 933–971.
Edmans, A., and G. Manso, 2011, “Governance Through Trading and Intervention: A Theory of
Multiple Blockholders,” Review of Financial Studies , 24, 2395–2428.
30

=== PAGE 33 ===
Faleye, O., 2004, “Cash and corporate control,” The Journal of Finance , 59, 2041–2060.
Fama, E. F., and K. R. French, 1993, “Common Risk Factors in the Returns on Stocks and Bonds,”
Journal of Financial Economics , 43, 3–56.
Fang, V. W., T. H. Noe, and S. Tice, 2009, “Stock Market Liquidity and Firm Value,” Journal of
Financial Economics, 94, 150–169.
Faure-Grimaud, A., and D. Gromb, 2004, “Public Trading and Private Incentives,” Review of
Financial Studies, 17, 985–1014.
Furﬁne, C., 2003, “Decimalization and market liquidity,” Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago Eco-
nomic Perspectives, pp. 2–12.
Gantchev, N., 2013, “The Costs of Shareholder Activism: Evidence from a Sequential Decision
Model,” Journal of Financial Economics , 107, 610–631.
Gantchev, N., and C. Jotikasthira, 2013, “Activist Hedge Funds: Do They Take Cues from Insti-
tutional Exit?,” Unpublished Manuscript.
Gillan, S. L., and L. T. Starks, 1998, “A Survey of Shareholder Activism: Motivation and Empirical
Evidence,” Contemporary Finance Digest, 2, 10–34.
Gordon, L. A., and J. Pound, 1993, “Information, ownership structure, and shareholder voting:
Evidence from shareholder-sponsored corporate governance proposals,” The Journal of Finance ,
48, 697–718.
Greenwood, R., and M. Schor, 2009, “Investor Activism and Takeovers,” Journal of Financial
Economics, 92, 362–375.
Harrison, M. J., and D. M. Kreps, 1978, “Speculative Investor Behavior in a Stock Market with
Heterogenous Expectations,” Quarterly Journal of Economics , 92, 323–336.
Hasbrouck, J., 2009, “Trading costs and returns for US equities: Estimating eﬀective costs from
daily data,” The Journal of Finance , 64, 1445–1477.
31

=== PAGE 34 ===
Kahn, C., and A. Winton, 1998, “Ownership Structure, Speculation, and Shareholder Intervention,”
The Journal of Finance , 53, 99–129.
Karpoﬀ, J. M., 2001, “The Impact of Shareholder Activism on Target Companies: A Survey of
Empirical Findings,” Unpublished Manuscript.
Karpoﬀ, J. M., P. H. Malatesta, and R. A. Walkling, 1996, “Corporate governance and shareholder
initiatives: Empirical evidence,” Journal of Financial Economics , 42, 365–395.
Klein, A., and E. Zur, 2009, “Entrepreneurial Shareholder Activism: Hedge Funds and Other
Private Investors,” The Journal of Finance , 64, 187–229.
Maug, E., 1998, “Large Shareholders as Monitors: Is There a Trade-oﬀ Between Liquidity and
Control?,” The Journal of Finance , 53, 65–98.
McCahery, J., Z. Sautner, and L. Starks, 2011, “Behind the scenes: The corporate governance
preferences of institutional shareholders,” Unpublished Manuscript.
Miller, E. M., 1977, “Risk, uncertainty and divergence of opinion,” The Journal of Finance , 32,
1151–1168.
Nagel, S., 2005, “Short sales, institutional investors and the cross-section of stock returns,” Journal
of Financial Economics , 78, 277–309.
Norton, E. C., H. Wang, and C. Ai, 2004, “Computing Interaction Eﬀects and Standard Errors in
Logit and Probit Models,” The Stata Journal , 4, 154–167.
Sias, R. W., L. T. Starks, and S. Titman, 2006, “Change in Institutional Ownership and Stock
Returns: Assessment and Methodology,” Journal of Business , 79, 2869–2910.
Winton, A., and S. Li, 2006, “When Do Institutional Investors Become Activists? Trading Incen-
tives and Shareholder Activism,” Unpublished Manuscript.
32

=== PAGE 35 ===
Figure 1
Fraction of ﬁrms that experience shareholder activism: 1994–2007
The Figure shows how shareholder activism varies across sample years: 1994 through the third
quarter of 2007. For each year we identify all ﬁrms that satisfy non-activism related sampling
criteria. Each bar in the ﬁgure represents the fraction of ﬁrms experiencing shareholder activism in
a given year. A ﬁrm experiences shareholder activism if a non-management shareholder or group
of shareholders ﬁle a shareholder proposal or a contested solicitation through EDGAR. The light
area of the 2007-bar is the proportionally projected number of activism cases in the fourth quarter
of 2007 (which is outside our sample).
0
.1
.2
.3
.4
.5
.6
.7
.8
.9
1
1.1
1.2
1.3
Percent
1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
33

=== PAGE 36 ===
Figure 2
Average net fraction of target ﬁrms’ outstanding shares traded by shareholder
activists
The ﬁgure shows the average net fraction of outstanding shares traded by activists on event days
−252 through +40 days relative to the announcement day. The average net fraction of outstanding
shares is negative on a given event day when shareholder activists on average have sold shares in
the target ﬁrms. Trading data are collected from the last 13D (form SC 13D on EDGAR) ﬁled by
the activist prior to the activism announcement and all amendments to this ﬁling ﬁled before day
+40 relative to the announcement day (form SC 13D/A on EDGAR). Firms where the activist did
not report any trades, but where such reporting would not be required because ownership in the
target ﬁrm is less than 5%, are excluded from the analysis. Altogether, the sample includes 259
event ﬁrms. After trimming the sample for outliers by dropping the 10 largest trades, the total
number of trades used to construct the graphical representation of trading in the Figure is 11,508.
−0.0005
0.0000
0.0005
0.0010
0.0015
Fraction Traded
40200−20−40−60−80−100−120−140−160−180−200−220−236−252
Event time in days
34

=== PAGE 37 ===
Table 1
Activist shareholder type and purpose of shareholder activism
The table categorizes activist events in the sample according to type of activism (Panel A), dissident shareholder
identity (Panel B), and the stated purpose of the activism (Panel C). The categories in Panels B and C may overlap.
Information on activism type, dissident shareholder identity, and stock ownership are from SEC ﬁlings and Factiva
news searches. Stock ownership is recorded at the date of the SEC ﬁling. The classiﬁcation of the purpose of activism
is based on the statements made by the activist in the SEC ﬁling. The sample period is 1994 through the third
quarter of 2007. The sample includes ﬁrms listed on NYSE, AMEX, or Nasdaq with common shares and is restricted
to ﬁrms that have information on market capitalization and book-to-market ratio in the year prior to the year of
activism.
Average
activist
ownership
Number
ofcases
Proportion
of events
(percent)
A. Type of activism
Proxy contest 10.0 331 86.0
Shareholder proposal 1.3 43 11.2
Proxy contest and shareholder proposal 4.9 3 0.8
Other 6.8 8 2.0
Total 9.0 385 100.0
B. Activist shareholder identity and stock ownership
Hedge funds 9.1 182 47.3
Shareholder committees 10.9 111 28.8
Individual investors 9.1 51 13.2
Workers unions 0.0 32 8.3
Investment companies 8.9 30 7.8
Industrial owners 15.4 12 3.1
Financial institutions 5.8 8 2.1
Pension funds 2.1 8 2.1
Investment managers 5.9 8 2.1
Private equity companies 6.3 4 1.0
Unknown 8.8 2 0.5
C. Stated purpose of activism
Change in the board of directors 10.0 318 82.6
Change in corporate governance, including voting procedures 8.0 164 42.6
Change in business strategy 9.5 163 42.3
Sale of target assets or sale of target company 8.7 132 34.3
Improvement in operating eﬃciency 9.4 100 26.0
Change in the compensation of the CEO or directors 9.3 87 22.6
Removal of takeover defense 8.1 71 18.4
Change in payout policy (dividend or stock repurchase) 7.6 63 16.4
Replacement of the CEO 11.6 60 15.6
Change in capital structure (debt-equity ratio) 8.9 30 7.8
Prevention of acquisition or merger with another company 7.6 14 3.6
Prevention of take-over 8.1 14 3.6
Suggestion of a speciﬁc means of ﬁnancing 11.1 10 2.6
35

=== PAGE 38 ===
Table 2
Characteristics of ﬁrms targeted by a shareholder activist and of ﬁrms not targeted
by an activist
The table compares characteristics of ﬁrms that experience shareholder activism in a given year with the characteristics
of ﬁrms that do not experience shareholder activism. A ﬁrm experiences shareholder activism in year t if a non-
management shareholder or group of shareholders ﬁle a shareholder proposal or a contested solicitation through
EDGAR some time during year t. Liquidity is measured using the eﬀective trading cost measure of Hasbrouck
(2009) multiplied by −1. Thus, higher values of the liquidity variable correspond to higher liquidity. Abnormal
performance(t−1) is measured as the average monthly abnormal performance for year t − 1. Abnormal monthly
performance for month s is computed as follows: Using a minimum of 12 monthly returns and a maximum of 60
monthly returns for the periods−60 throughs−1, we regress excess returns for stocki on the three Fama and French
(1993) factors and a momentum factor. Benchmark return is computed as the sum of regression coeﬃcients times
corresponding factor realizations for month s. The abnormal return for month s is the diﬀerence between the return
on stock i and the benchmark return. Herﬁndahl, institutional ownership is the Herﬁndahl index of institutional
ownership and is computed as the sum of squared ownership fractions for shareholders making 13F ﬁlings with the
SEC. Institutional holding is the aggregate stock-holding of shareholders making 13F ﬁlings to the SEC. Institutional
breadth is the number of institutional investors that have reported ownership through 13F ﬁlings normalized with
the total number of institutional owners reporting in a given year. Volatility is the standard deviation of monthly
returns during year t. Analyst coverage is the number of earnings estimates found in I/B/E/S. Log(Market cap)
is the natural logarithm of the end-of-December market capitalization. Book-to-market ratio is the book value of
equity divided by the market value of equity. Log(Sales) is the natural logarithm of the dollar value of sales. Cash
is cash and marketable securities divided by total assets. Dividend yield is total dividend (common dividend plus
preferred dividend) divided by market value of common equity plus book value of preferred equity. Book value of
preferred equity is the ﬁrst non-missing value when using redemption value, liquidating value, and the carrying value
in that order. R&D is research and development expenses divided by total assets. If R&D expenses are missing from
Compustat, they are assumed to be zero. All variables are measured one year prior to the year of activism except
where indicated. All variables that are ratios based on Compustat data (book-to-market ratio, Cash, dividend yield,
and R&D) are trimmed by removing the lower and higher 0.005 percentile of the distribution (i.e, removing 0.5% of
the observations in each tail), except R&D which is trimmed only at the upper tail. T-test of diﬀerences is two-sided
and allows for unequal variances. The sample period is 1994 through the third quarter of 2007. The sample only
includes ﬁrms listed on NYSE, AMEX, or Nasdaq with common shares. The sample is also restricted to ﬁrms that
have information on market capitalization and book-to-market ratio in the year prior to the activism-year.
Firm-years
with activism
Firm-years
without activism Diﬀerence
Variable N Mean N Mean Mean t-value
Liquidity(t−1) 383 −0.010 75,999 −0.013 −0.003 -5.8
Liquidity(t−2) 372 −0.010 69,861 −0.013 −0.003 -6.4
Abnormal Performance(t−1) 381 −0.010 85,299 0.004 0.013 5.5
Abnormal Performance(t−2) 365 −0.005 77,417 0.006 0.009 3.8
Herﬁndahl, institutional ownership (t−1) 382 0.021 88,474 0.023 0.002 1.1
Institutional holding(t−1) 379 0.422 88,224 0.374 −0.048 -3.3
Institutional breadth(t−1) 382 0.050 88,589 0.042 −0.008 -1.8
Volatility(t−1) 381 0.130 86,332 0.145 0.014 3.0
Analyst coverage(t−1) 385 4.961 91,501 4.121 −0.839 -2.4
Nasdaq 385 0.623 91,501 0.552 −0.071 -2.9
Log(Market cap)(t−1) 385 5.148 91,501 5.150 0.002 0.0
Book-to-market ratio (t−1) 385 0.998 91,501 1.771 0.773 12.4
Log(Sales)(t−1) 384 5.110 90,910 4.848 −0.262 -1.9
Dividend yield(t−1) 384 0.011 90,374 0.057 0.046 17.6
Cash(t−1) 381 0.171 89,982 0.172 0.001 0.0
R&D(t−1) 382 0.034 87,325 0.040 0.007 1.9
36

=== PAGE 39 ===
Table 3
Probit models of shareholder activism using the Hasbrouck (2009) eﬀective trading
cost measure to form liquidity variables
The table documents the eﬀects of independent variables on the probability of experiencing shareholder activism.
The dependent variable equals one if ﬁrm i experiences shareholder activism in year t and is zero otherwise. Liquidity
is measured using the eﬀective trading cost measure of Hasbrouck (2009) multiplied by −1. Thus, higher values of
the liquidity variable correspond to higher liquidity. In Model (1) liquidity is measured one year prior to the year of
activism (Liquidity(t−1)). In Model (2) liquidity is measured two years prior to the year of activism (Liquidity (t−2)).
The other explanatory variables are deﬁned in Table 2. When computing change in probability for a given change in
liquidity, other explanatory variables are held at their means. Parentheses in the ﬁrst segment of the table contain
z-values from robust standard errors estimated with the Huber-White sandwich estimator. Parentheses in the second
segment of the table contain p-values from a Wald-test of the signiﬁcance of the change in probability when liquidity
is increased from the 10th to the 90th percentile. The corresponding change in percent relative to the unconditional
probability of activism in the regression sample is given in the bottom line of the table. The sample includes ﬁrms
listed on NYSE, AMEX, or Nasdaq with common shares. The sample period is 1994 through the third quarter of
2007.
Model (1) (2)
Liquidity(t−1) 12.77 ( 4 .81)
Liquidity(t−2) 10.27 ( 3 .30)
Abnormal performance (t−1) −0.96 (−2.27) −0.62 (−1.42)
Abnormal performance (t−2) −1.38 (−3.46) −1.13 (−2.92)
Herﬁndahl, institutional ownership (t−1) −0.60 (−0.89) −0.57 (−0.88)
Institutional holding(t−1) 0.26 ( 2 .55) 0 .26 ( 2 .54)
Institutional breadth(t−1) 1.67 ( 4 .02) 1 .49 ( 3 .51)
Volatility(t−1) −0.59 (−2.02) −0.63 (−2.16)
Analyst coverage(t−1) 0.00 ( 0 .81) 0 .00 ( 0 .72)
Nasdaq 0 .06 ( 1 .32) 0 .06 ( 1 .20)
Log(Market cap)(t−1) −0.14 (−5.45) −0.13 (−4.83)
Book-to-market ratio (t−1) 0.01 ( 0 .82) 0 .00 ( 0 .40)
Log(Sales)(t−1) 0.01 ( 0 .59) 0 .01 ( 0 .62)
Dividend yield(t−1) −0.58 (−0.88) −0.57 (−0.90)
Cash(t−1) 0.27 ( 2 .14) 0 .27 ( 2 .15)
R&D(t−1) −0.67 (−2.37) −0.66 (−2.36)
Year-dummies Yes Yes
Number of observations 63,555 63,396
Number of activism events 355 354
Pseudo R2 0.029 0.027
Change in probability of activism when liquidity is increased
from the 10th to the 90th percentile (p-value) 0.47 ( 0 .000) 0 .40 ( 0 .000)
Change relative to sample probability of activism 84.9% 71.2%
37

=== PAGE 40 ===
Table 4
Probit models of shareholder activism using alternative liquidity variables based on
the Hasbrouck (2009) eﬀective trading cost measure
The table documents the eﬀects of independent variables on the probability of experiencing shareholder activism.
The dependent variable equals one if ﬁrm i experiences shareholder activism in year t and is zero otherwise. Liquidity
is measured using the eﬀective trading cost measure of Hasbrouck (2009) multiplied by −1. Thus, higher values of
the liquidity variable correspond to higher liquidity. In Model (1) liquidity is measured over years t − 4 and t − 3
relative to the year of activism. Model (2) is an iv-probit model where liquidity in year t − 2 is instrumented using:
(i) The average liquidity of ﬁrms in industries outside of ﬁrm i’s industry, measured two years prior to the year of
activism and (ii) a decimal dummy that equals one for the years following 2001 multiplied by the average sales of the
ﬁrm in the period 1994-2001. In Model (3) liquidity is measured using the residual from the following regression:
Lt−2 =γ0 +γ1Herft−2 +γ2InstHt−2 +γ3InstBt−2 +γ4AvgLt−2 +ϵt−2,
where Lt−2 is the Hasbrouck (2009) measure multiplied by −1, Herf is the Herﬁndahl index of institutional ownership,
InstH is Institutional holdings, InstB is Institutional breadth, and AvgL t is the average Hasbrouck (2009) illiquidity
in the cross-section of ﬁrms in year t. In Model (4) liquidity is measured as a dummy variable that equals one in
year t if the Hasbrouck (2009) eﬀective cost is greater than the cross-sectional median in year t. In all models,
the control variables are the same as in Table 3. When computing the change in probability for a given change in
liquidity, other variables enter with the values they have in our sample. Parentheses in the ﬁrst segment of the table
contain z-values from robust standard errors estimated with the Huber-White sandwich estimator. For model (3) the
standard errors are bootstrapped. Parentheses in the second segment of the table contain p-values from a Wald-test
of the signiﬁcance of the change in probability when liquidity is increased from the 10th to the 90th percentile. The
corresponding change in percent relative to the unconditional probability of activism in the regression sample is given
in the bottom line of the table. The sample includes ﬁrms listed on NYSE, AMEX, or Nasdaq with common shares.
The sample period is 1994 through the third quarter of 2007.
Model (1) (2) (3) (4)
Liquidity(t−4,t−3) 5.9 (2.3)
IV Liquidity(t−2) 19.2 (2.5)
Orthogonalized liquidity(t−2) 8.1 (3.2)
Liquidity dummy(t−2) 0.2 (3.4)
Control variables Yes Yes Yes Yes
Year-dummies Yes Yes Yes Yes
Number of observations 60,892 62,025 63,109 63,396
Number of activism events 347 349 353 354
Change in probability when liquidity
is increased from the 10th to the 90th
percentile (p-value)
0.25
(0.018)
0.79
(0.043)
0.28
(0.002)
0.28
(0.000)
Change relative to sample probability of activism 44.2% 142.3% 49.6% 50.1%
38

=== PAGE 41 ===
Table 5
Probit models of shareholder activism using the Amihud (2002) trade impact
measure to form liquidity variables
The table documents the eﬀects of independent variables on the probability of experiencing shareholder activism.
The dependent variable equals one if ﬁrm i experiences shareholder activism in year t and is zero otherwise. Liquidity
is measured using the trade impact measure of Amihud (2002) multiplied by −1. Thus, higher values of the liquidity
variable correspond to higher liquidity. The liquidity measure is winsorized at the 1st and 99th percentile. In Model
(1) liquidity is measured one year prior to the year of activism (Liquidity (t−1)). In Model (2) liquidity is measured
two years prior to the year of activism (Liquidity (t−2)). In Model (3) liquidity is measured over years t − 4 and t − 3
relative to the year of activism. Model (4) is an iv-probit model where liquidity in year t − 2 is instrumented using:
(i) The average liquidity of ﬁrms in industries outside of ﬁrm i’s industry, measured two years prior to the year of
activism and (ii) a decimal dummy that equals one for the years following 2001 multiplied by the average sales of
the ﬁrm in the period 1994-2001. In all models, the control variables are the same as in Table 3. When computing
the change in probability for a given change in liquidity, other variables are held at their means. Parentheses in the
ﬁrst segment of the table contain z-values from robust standard errors estimated with the Huber-White sandwich
estimator. Parentheses in the second segment of the table contain p-values from a Wald-test of the signiﬁcance of
the change in probability when liquidity is increased from the 10th to the 90th percentile. The corresponding change
in percent relative to the unconditional probability of activism in the regression sample is given in the bottom line
of the table. The sample only includes ﬁrms listed on NYSE, AMEX, or Nasdaq with common shares. The sample
period is 1994 through the third quarter of 2007.
Model (1) (2) (3) (4)
Amihud Liquidity(t−1) 0.9 (2.2)
Amihud Liquidity(t−2) 1.2 (2.4)
Amihud Liquidity(t−4,t−3) 0.7 (1.7)
IV Amihud Liquidity(t−2) 4.6 (4.9)
Control variables Yes Yes Yes Yes
Year-dummies Yes Yes Yes Yes
Number of observations 60,690 60,279 55,351 57,689
Number of activism events 345 346 326 346
Change in probability when liquidity
is increased from the 10th to the 90th
percentile (p-value)
0.13 (0.023) 0 .15 (0.012) 0 .10 (0.079) 1 .36 (0.084)
Change relative to sample probability of activism 22.1% 26.4% 17.3% 237.2%
39

=== PAGE 42 ===
Table 6
The impact of overvaluation on the eﬀect of liquidity on shareholder activism,
measuring liquidity using the eﬀective trading cost measure of Hasbrouck (2009)
The table documents the eﬀects of independent variables on the probability of experiencing shareholder activism
using a probit regression. The dependent variable equals one if ﬁrm i experiences shareholder activism in year t
and is zero otherwise. Liquidity is measured using the eﬀective trading cost measure of Hasbrouck (2009) multiplied
by −1. Thus, higher values of the liquidity variable correspond to higher liquidity. In columns (1) through (3),
overvaluation proxies are constructed using the variables Volatility t−1 and Institutional Holding t−1. Volatility t−1 is
the standard deviation of monthly stock returns for year t − 1 relative to the activism year. Institutional holding t−1
is the aggregate stock-holding of shareholders making 13F ﬁlings to the SEC at the end of year t − 1 relative to the
activism year. In column (4), the overvaluation proxy is mutual fund inﬂow induced price pressure, computed under
the assumption that all mutual funds that experience inﬂow exceeding 5% of their total assets purchase additional
stocks in proportion to their existing holdings. All regressions include the same set of control variables as in Table 3,
except that Volatility (t−1) is not a control variable in (2) and Institutional holding (t−1) is not a control variable in
(3). Computation of the average interaction eﬀect and the associated z-value follows Ai and Norton (2003). When
ﬁxing overvaluation at a given percentile and computing the change in probability for a given change in liquidity,
variables other than overvaluation and liquidity enter with their sample values. Parentheses in the ﬁrst segment of
the table contain z-values from robust standard errors estimated with the Huber-White sandwich estimator. In the
second segment of the table, parentheses in the ﬁrst row contain average z-values and parentheses in the last three
rows contains p-values from a Wald-test of statistical signiﬁcance. The sample includes ﬁrms listed on NYSE, AMEX,
or Nasdaq with common shares. The sample period is 1994 through the third quarter of 2007.
Overvaluation proxy
Ln
( Volatilityt−1
Inst Holdt−1
)
Volatility(t−1) Ln
( 1
Inst Holdt−1
) Price
Pressure it−1
Model (1) (2) (3) (4)
Liquidity(t−2) × Overval. proxy(t−1) −1.86 (−3.6) −15.73 (−2.7) −2.18 (−3.9) −1.57 (−3.8)
Liquidity(t−2) 11.82 ( 3 .9) 13 .33 ( 4 .0) 16 .25 ( 4 .2) 11 .21 ( 3 .5)
Overvaluation proxy(t−1) −0.08 (−2.7) −0.88 (−2.6) −0.09 (−3.6) −0.07 (−2.9)
Other control variables Yes Yes Yes Yes
Year-dummies Yes Yes Yes Yes
Number of observations 63,396 63,396 63,396 63,396
Number of activism events 354 354 354 354
Average Liquidity-Overvaluation
interaction eﬀect (average z-value) −0.06 (−2.2) −0.57 (−2.2) −0.07 (−2.5) −0.45 (−2.3)
Overvaluation at percentile 10. Liquidity
changed from 10th to 90th percentile 0 .68 (0.001) 0 .64 (0.000) 0 .94 (0.001) 0 .51 (0.000)
Overvaluation at percentile 90. Liquidity
changed from 10th to 90th percentile 0 .33 (0.001) 0 .41 (0.000) 0 .49 (0.000) 0 .31 (0.000)
Diﬀerence in probability change 0 .36 (0.035) 0 .23 (0.030) 0 .45 (0.013) 0 .20 (0.020)
40

=== PAGE 43 ===
Table 7
The impact of overvaluation on the eﬀect of liquidity on shareholder activism,
measuring liquidity using the eﬀective trading cost measure of Amihud (2002)
The table documents the eﬀects of independent variables on the probability of experiencing shareholder activism using
a probit regression. The dependent variable equals one if ﬁrm i experiences shareholder activism in year t and is zero
otherwise. Liquidity is measured using the trade impact measure of Amihud (2002) multiplied by −1. Thus, higher
values of the liquidity variable correspond to higher liquidity. The liquidity measure is winsorized at the 1st and
99th percentile. In columns (1) through (3), overvaluation proxies are constructed using the variables Volatility t−1
and Institutional Holding t−1. Volatility t−1 is the standard deviation of monthly stock returns for year t − 1 relative
to the activism year. Institutional holding t−1 is the aggregate stock-holding of shareholders making 13F ﬁlings to
the SEC at the end of year t − 1 relative to the activism year. In column (4), the overvaluation proxy is mutual
fund inﬂow induced price pressure, computed under the assumption that all mutual funds that experience inﬂow
exceeding 5% of their total assets purchase additional stocks in proportion to their existing holdings. All regressions
include the same set of control variables as in Table 3, except that Volatility (t−1) is not a control variable in (2)
and Institutional holding (t−1) is not a control variable in (3). Computation of the average interaction eﬀect and the
associated z-value follows Ai and Norton (2003). When ﬁxing overvaluation at a given percentile and computing the
change in probability for a given change in liquidity, variables other than overvaluation and liquidity enter with their
sample values. Parentheses in the ﬁrst segment of the table contain z-values from robust standard errors estimated
with the Huber-White sandwich estimator. In the second segment of the table, parentheses in the ﬁrst row contain
average z-values and parentheses in the last three rows contains p-values from a Wald-test of statistical signiﬁcance.
The sample includes ﬁrms listed on NYSE, AMEX, or Nasdaq with common shares. The sample period is 1994
through the third quarter of 2007.
Overvaluation proxy
Ln
( Volatilityt−1
Inst Holdt−1
)
Volatility(t−1) Ln
( 1
Inst Holdt−1
) Price
Pressure it−1
Model (1) (2) (3) (4)
Liquidity(t−2) × Overval. proxy(t−1) −0.22 (−3.0) −1.83 (−4.1) −0.22 (−2.7) −0.49 (−2.0)
Liquidity(t−2) 1.60 ( 2 .8) 1 .64 ( 2 .9) 1 .93 ( 2 .8) 1 .20 ( 2 .4)
Overvaluation proxy(t−1) −0.05 (−1.7) −0.93 (−2.9) −0.05 (−2.2) −0.07 (−3.2)
Other control variables Yes Yes Yes Yes
Year-dummies Yes Yes Yes Yes
Number of observations 60,279 60,279 60,279 60,279
Number of activism events 346 346 346 346
Average Liquidity-Overvaluation
interaction eﬀect (average z-value) −0.01 (−1.8) −0.08 (−2.1) −0.01 (−1.9) −0.01 (−1.9)
Overvaluation at percentile 10. Liquidity
changed from 10th to 90th percentile 0 .27 (0.011) 0 .27 (0.005) 0 .32 (0.012) 0 .19 (0.012)
Overvaluation at percentile 90. Liquidity
changed from 10th to 90th percentile 0 .17 (0.010) 0 .17 (0.003) 0 .22 (0.011) 0 .11 (0.015)
Diﬀerence in probability change 0 .10 (0.146) 0 .10 (0.048) 0 .10 (0.095) 0 .08 (0.043)
41

=== PAGE 44 ===
Table 8
Trading in target ﬁrms by shareholder activists prior to the activism announcement
The table reports descriptive statistics on trading by shareholder activists over the one-year period ending with the
activism announcement. Trading data is collected from the last 13D (form SC 13D on EDGAR) ﬁled by the activist
prior to the activism announcement and all amendments to this ﬁling ﬁled before the day of activism announcement
(form SC 13D/A on EDGAR). Firms where the activist did not report any trades, but where such reporting would
not be required because ownership in the target ﬁrm is less than 5%, are excluded from the analysis. The Hedge fund,
Shareholder committees, and Investment companies are not mutually exclusive categories (i.e., a trade can occur in
more than one category.) The ﬁrst column (“Target ﬁrms”) reports the number of ﬁrms for which we can observe
activist trades. The second column (“Percent w/trade”) reports the percentage of ﬁrms where the activist traded
prior to the activism announcement. Column three (“N”) reports the number of trades. Column four (“Percent
buys”) reports the percentage of trades where the activist bought shares. Column ﬁve (“Mean $1000s”) reports the
mean size of the activist trade in $1000s. Column six (“Median $1000s”) reports the median size of the activist trade
in $1000s. Column seven (“Percentage points”) reports the ownership, in percentage points, the activist acquired
over the 252 trading dates prior to the announcement. Column eight (“Percent of own block”) reports the ownership
the activist acquired over the 252 trading days prior to the announcement, in percent of his ownership in the target
at announcement. Column nine (“Mean $1000s”) reports the dollar diﬀerence, in $1000s, between the announcement
day value of the stocks acquired over the last 252 trading days and the amount spent to acquire those stocks. The
last column (“Percent”) reports the dollar proﬁt in percent of the value of the stocks acquired by the activist over
the last 252 trading days, valued on the announcement date. The sample includes ﬁrms listed on NYSE, AMEX, or
Nasdaq with common shares. The sample period is 1994 through the third quarter of 2007.
Descriptive statistics using the sample of trades
Sample Trades Trade size
Acquired
Ownership Proﬁt
Target
ﬁrms
Percent
w/trade N
Percent
buys
Mean
$1000s
Median
$1000s
Perc-
entage
points
Percent
of own
block
Mean
$1000s Percent
All 259 76% 11,518 95% 346 16 4.25 54% 1,563 8.5%
Hedge
funds 143 88 7,753 93 457 39 4.89 61 2,117 9.9
Shareholder
committees 85 74 3,445 90 108 19 3.09 37 413 6.1
Investment
companies 22 77 456 97 587 31 4.71 39 2,103 11.8
42

=== PAGE 45 ===
Table 9
Liquidity and pre-activism trading by shareholder activists
The table reports results from a regression of pre-activism trading on liquidity and a set of control variables. The
dependent variable is the fraction of the target ﬁrm’s shares acquired by the shareholder activist over the year ending
on the day prior to the activism announcement. Liquidity is measured using the eﬀective trading cost measure of
Hasbrouck (2009) and the trade impact measure of Amihud (2002), both multiplied with −1. Thus, higher values of
the liquidity variables correspond to higher liquidity. Amihud liquidity is winsorized at the 1st and 99th percentiles.
Liquidity is measured, in event time, during the year prior to the year over which trading is recorded. Control
variables are deﬁned in Table 2. Trading data are collected from the last 13D (form SC 13D on EDGAR) ﬁled by the
activist prior to the activism announcement and all amendments to this ﬁling ﬁled before the announcement date
(ﬁled on form SC 13D/A on EDGAR). In Models (1) and (3), cases where the activist did not report any trades
assumes trading is zero. In Models (2) and (4), cases where the activist did not report any trades, but where such
reporting would not be required because ownership in the target ﬁrm is less than 5%, are excluded from the analysis.
Parentheses contain t-values from robust standard errors estimated with the Huber-White sandwich estimator. The
sample includes ﬁrms listed on NYSE, AMEX, or Nasdaq with common shares. The sample period is 1994 through
the third quarter of 2007.
Hasbrouck Amihud
Sample (1) (2) (3) (4)
Liquidity(t−3) 40.98 ( 2 .52) 40 .97 ( 2 .07) 3 .75 ( 2 .38) 3 .93 ( 1 .94)
Abnormal performance (t−2) 2.10 ( 0 .32) 4 .64 ( 0 .66) 1 .36 ( 0 .20) 3 .68 ( 0 .52)
Abnormal performance (t−3) −9.48 (−1.40) −9.64 (−1.51) −10.21 (−1.51) −10.20 (−1.63)
Herﬁndahl, institutional ownership (t−2) −4.89 (−0.63) −12.92 (−1.10) −5.93 (−0.95) −15.34 (−1.56)
Institutional holding(t−2) 4.05 ( 2 .96) 6 .16 ( 3 .28) 4 .18 ( 3 .01) 6 .43 ( 3 .39)
Institutional breadth(t−2) 0.00 ( 1 .20) 0 .14 ( 1 .89) 0 .00 ( 1 .22) 0 .16 ( 2 .21)
Volatility(t−2) −3.50 (−1.16) −3.51 (−1.01) −5.42 (−1.75) −5.54 (−1.57)
Analyst coverage(t−2) 0.07 ( 1 .40) 0 .11 ( 1 .24) 0 .08 ( 1 .48) 0 .11 ( 1 .28)
Nasdaq −0.08 (−0.17) 0 .02 ( 0 .03) −0.22 (−0.44) −0.11 (−0.17)
Log(Market cap)(t−2) −1.20 (−4.29) −1.43 (−3.38) −1.20 (−4.33) −1.45 (−3.37)
Book-to-market ratio (t−2) −0.11 (−0.19) 0 .15 ( 0 .19) −0.04 (−0.06) 0 .27 ( 0 .36)
Log(Sales)(t−2) 0.14 ( 1 .29) 0 .21 ( 1 .53) 0 .13 ( 1 .17) 0 .19 ( 1 .32)
Dividend yield(t−2) 2.86 ( 0 .20) 74 .95 ( 1 .55) 3 .12 ( 0 .21) 75 .51 ( 1 .51)
Cash(t−2) −0.67 (−0.35) 0 .81 ( 0 .37) −0.25 (−0.13) 1 .32 ( 0 .60)
R&D(t−2) 7.54 ( 2 .38) 7 .32 ( 1 .90) 7 .83 ( 2 .53) 7 .62 ( 2 .03)
Year-dummies Yes Yes Yes Yes
Number of observations 311 232 298 221
R2 0.175 0.197 0.186 0.208
43

=== PAGE 46 ===
A Shareholder activist types
Shareholder activist types in Table 1 are classiﬁed according to the deﬁnitions below. In general,
the categories are overlapping such that if diﬀerent dissenting shareholder types ﬁle jointly, we
register both types.
Hedge funds: Private investment partnership, a private investment fund, or a hedge fund manager
or sponsor.
Financial institutions: Broker-dealers, commercial, and savings banks, etc.
Private equity companies: Private equity investors and funds.
Investment managers : Managers of private clients’ assets portfolios and include ﬁnancial advi-
sors and consultants.
Investment companies: Closed-end funds and open-end mutual funds.
Pensions funds: Retirement systems such as CalPERS.
Industrial owners : Non-ﬁnancial corporations, typically such ﬁrms own an equity stake in the
target ﬁrm.
Individual investors: Filer is a single individual, most often a shareholder of the target company.
Shareholder committee: More than one individual registrant is speciﬁed in the ﬁling which often
occurs under a name of the form “ TargetCompany Shareholder Committee”. Shareholder commit-
tees typically consist of several individual shareholders and may include company directors, and it
is not unusual to observe a committee cooperating with hedge funds, investment companies and
managers, or workers unions.
Workers unions: Union ﬁlers.
Unknown: Categories where we are unable to identify the type of ﬁler.
44

=== PAGE 47 ===
B Instrumental variable probit
We use two instruments for stock liquidity. The ﬁrst exploits the introduction of decimalization on
NYSE, AMEX, and Nasdaq in 2001. Evidence presented in Bessembinder (2003) and Furﬁne (2003)
suggests that decimalization had a signiﬁcant positive eﬀect on liquidity. The event has also been
employed as an instrument for liquidity by Fang, Noe, and Tice (2009), Bharath, Jayaraman, and
Nagar (2013), and Edmans, Fang, and Zur (2013). The introduction of decimalization constitutes
an exogenous shock to liquidity that is uncorrelated with shareholder activism as required for an
instrument.
A dummy variable for the event of decimalization may be an instrument for stock liquidity in
its own right. However, decimalization aﬀects all stocks the same way and only picks up variation
over time. Instead we create an instrument with cross-sectional variation by interacting a dummy
variable for decimalization that equals one from 2001 and onwards (and otherwise zero) with a
variable that varies across individual stocks. Furﬁne (2003) and Chakravarty, Wood, and van Hess
(2004) document that the impact of decimalization was larger for stocks traded more actively and
for stocks with relatively wider quoted spreads.
Data on the average time between trades used by Furﬁne (2003) are not available to us, but we
exploit the fact that larger ﬁrms are generally traded more actively. We construct an instrument
by interacting a dummy for decimalization by the average ﬁrm size over the years prior to decimal-
ization. We prefer to measure ﬁrm size by Ln(sales) because sales are unaﬀected by movements in
stock prices as opposed to, say, market capitalization. The interacted variable equals zero prior to
decimalization and attains a constant value in the years afterwards, such that the constant magni-
tude is larger for larger ﬁrms. The interacted variable thus captures a change in the cross-sectional
distribution in the year of 2001 and there is little reason to believe that the magnitude of this
“shift” is correlated with activism. For that to be the case, the cross-sectional pattern of the shift
would have to be correlated with a similar cross-sectional shift in activism in 2001.
The second instrument is created from the average liquidity of stocks in industries other than
the industry of the stock in question. We use average liquidity of ﬁrms in other industries in year
45

=== PAGE 48 ===
t− 2 as an instrument for the liquidity of stock i in yeart− 2. Industry membership is determined
using SIC codes and the Fama and French 49 industry deﬁnition.
The correlation between the Hasbrouck-liquidity measure and the average liquidity of stocks in
other industries are 0.26. For the decimalization×average sales instrument, the correlation is 0.27.
Correlations with the Amihud measure of liquidity are 0.05 and 0.10, respectively.
The coeﬃcients are estimated simultaneously by maximum likelihood, but we present the results
from a “ﬁrst stage” regression where the endogenous variable, liquidity, is regressed on the instru-
ments and all other exogenous variables in Table B.1. The instruments are all strongly signiﬁcant as
required. The Amemiya-Lee-Newey test of overidentifying restrictions shows that we cannot reject
the null that our set of instruments for liquidity is valid. Using the Hasbrouck (2009) measure of
liquidity, we cannot reject the null that liquidity is exogenous (p-value of 0.214). However, using
the Amihud (2002) measure, this null is rejected (p-value of 0.04).
46

=== PAGE 49 ===
Table B.1
First stage regressions for instrumental variable probit models of shareholder
activism
The table documents the ﬁrst stage regression results from an instrumental variable probit model of independent
variables on the probability of experiencing shareholder activism when stock liquidity is instrumented. The dependent
variable equals one if ﬁrm i experiences shareholder activism in year t and is zero otherwise. Liquidity is measured
using the eﬀective trading cost measure of Hasbrouck (2009) or the Amihud (2002) trade impact measure, both
multiplied by −1 so that higher values of the liquidity variable correspond to higher liquidity. The instruments are
the following: The average liquidity of ﬁrms in industries outside of ﬁrm i’s industry, measured two years prior to
the year of activism; a decimal dummy that equals one for the years following 2001 multiplied by the average sales of
the ﬁrm in the period 1994-2001 (divided by 100 for scaling). The other explanatory variables are deﬁned in Table 2.
Parentheses contain z-values from robust standard errors estimated with the Huber-White sandwich estimator. The
null hypothesis for the Wald test of exogeneity is that liquidity is exogenous. The null hypothesis for the Amemiya-
Lee-Newey test of overidentifying restrictions is that the instruments are valid. The sample includes ﬁrms listed on
NYSE, AMEX, or Nasdaq with common shares. The sample period is 1994 through the third quarter of 2007.
Model Hasbrouck (2009) Amihud (2002)
Average liquidity in other industries than stock i’s(t−2) −7.50 (−18.90) −6.17 (−12.56)
Decimalization dummy × avg. Log(Sales) prior to 2001 −0.17 (−35.54) −0.71 (−15.64)
Abnormal performance (t−1) −0.04 (−29.69) −0.45 (−24.19)
Abnormal performance (t−2) −0.01 (−9.22) −0.22 (−13.00)
Herﬁndahl index of ownership (t−1) −0.02 (−11.40) −0.10 (−9.53)
Institutional holding(t−1) 0.01 ( 32 .79) 0 .04 ( 22 .18)
Institutional breadth(t−1) −0.06 (−53.65) −0.48 (−43.51)
Volatility(t−1) −0.01 (−8.17) −0.09 (−5.44)
Analyst coverage(t−1) −0.00 (−17.98) −0.00 (−24.40)
Nasdaq −0.00 (−41.95) 0 .01 ( 7 .18)
Log(Market cap)(t−1) 0.00 ( 59 .05) 0 .04 ( 42 .00)
Book-to-market ratio (t−1) 0.00 ( 5 .21) 0 .00 ( 2 .87)
Log(Sales)(t−1) 0.00 ( 12 .21) 0 .01 ( 7 .44)
Dividend yield(t−1) 0.00 ( 3 .72) 0 .02 ( 4 .96)
Cash(t−1) 0.00 ( 8 .06) 0 .03 ( 7 .51)
R&D(t−1) 0.01 ( 9 .56) 0 .09 ( 11 .09)
Year-dummies Yes Yes
Wald test of exogeneity (p-value) 0.214 0.040
Amemiya-Lee-Newey test of overidentifying restrictions (p-value) 0.430 0.841
Number of observations 60,728 58,957
Number of activism events 354 346
47

=== PAGE 50 ===
The CCGR Working Paper Series: Contents   
 
The papers may be downloaded without charge from our website http://www.bi.edu/ccgr  
 
 
 
2007 
 
 
1/2007 Ole-Kristian Hope and John Christian Langli:   
Auditor Independence in a Private Firm and Low Litigation Risk Setting 
Revised April 2009 
Accepted for publication in the Accounting Review June 2009 
 
2008 
 
 
1/2008 Paul Ehling:  
Corporate Insurance and Managers' and Owners' Risk Aversion 
Revised April 2013 
  
 
2009 
 
 
1/2009 Øyvind Norli, Charlotte Ostergaard and Ibolya Schindele:  
Liquidity and Shareholder Activism 
Revised April 2010 
 
 
2010 
 
 
1/2010 Roland E. Kidwell and Arne Nygaard: 
The Dual-Agency Problem Reconsidered: A Strategic Deviance Perspective 
on the Franchise Form of Organizing 
Revised September  2010 
  
2/2010 Ole-Kristian Hope, John Christian Langli and Wayne B. Thomas:  
Agency Conflicts and Auditing in Private Firms 
March 2010 
Revised December  2011 
 
3/2010 Mohammad Abdolmohammadi, Erlend Kvaal and John Christian Langli:  
Earnings Management Priorities of Private Family Firms 
November 2010 
 
4/2010 Sturla Lyngnes Fjesme, Roni Michaely and Øyvind Norli: 
Using Brokerage Commissions to Secure IPO Allocations 
November 2010 

=== PAGE 51 ===
2011 
 
 
1/2011 Charlotte Ostergaard, Amir Sasson, and Bent E. Sørensen: 
The Marginal Value of Cash, Cash Flow Sensitivities, and Bank-Finance 
Shocks in Nonlisted Firms 
January 2011 
  
2/2011 Sturla Lyngnes Fjesme: 
Laddering in Initial Public Offering Allocations 
January 2011 
 
3/2011 Charlotte Ostergaard and David C. Smith: 
Corporate Governance Before There Was Corporate Law 
April 2011 
 
4/2011 Sturla Lyngnes Fjesme and Øyvind Norli: 
Initial Public Offering or Initial Private Placement? 
April 2011 
 
5/2011 Janis Berzin, Øyvind Bøhren and Bogdan Stacescu: 
Dividends and Stockholder Conflicts: A Comprehensive Test for Private 
Firms 
December 2011 
 
6/2011 Paul Ehling and David Haushalter: 
When Does Cash Matter? Evidence for private firms 
Revised January 2014 
 
2013 
 
 
1/2013 John Christian Langli and Tobias Svanström: 
Audits of private firms 
January 2013 
 
2/2013 Janis Berzins, Øyvind Bøhren and Bogdan Stacescu:  
Tax concerns and agency concerns in dividend policy: Holding companies 
as a separating device 
January 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE 52 ===
2014 
 
1/2014 Øyvind Norli, Charlotte Østergaard and Ibolya Schindele: 
Liquidity and Shareholder Activism 
April 2013 

=== PAGE 53 ===
 
  
The Centre for Corporate Governance Research (CCGR) 
conducts research on the relationship between corporate 
governance, firm behavior, and stakeholder welfare. Our 
projects pay particular attention to the governance of closely 
held firms and family firms, and the research teams come from 
different disciplines in several countries. Financing is provided 
by private sponsors and the Research Council of Norway.  
 
 
The CCGR is organized by the Department of Financial 
Economics at BI Norwegian Business School in Oslo, Norway 
(http://www.bi.edu) 
 
 
Centre for Corporate Governance Research 
BI Norwegian Business School 
Nydalsveien 37 
N-0442 OSLO 
Norway 
http://www.bi.edu/ccgr 
 
 